<div class="lgc" style="margin-top:2em;"> 
<p class="line">TO</p>
<p class="line"><span style="font-size:x-large">HARROW SCHOOL,</span></p>
<p class="line">AS I REMEMBER IT, WHEN I HAD THE</p>
<p class="line">HONOUR TO WEAR ‘THE HARROW HAT.’</p>
</div> 

<hr class="pbk" />

<p class="line" style="text-align:center;margin-top:3em;">CONTENTS</p>

<table id="tab2" summary="" class="center">
<tr><td class="tab2c1 tdStyle1">I.</td><td class="tab2c2 tdStyle0"><a href="#chI">FIRST BLOOD     </a></td></tr>
<tr><td class="tab2c1 tdStyle1">II.</td><td class="tab2c2 tdStyle0"><a href="#chII">WE TAKE THE FIELD     </a></td></tr>
<tr><td class="tab2c1 tdStyle1">III.</td><td class="tab2c2 tdStyle0"><a href="#chIII">IN TOUCH     </a></td></tr>
<tr><td class="tab2c1 tdStyle1">IV.</td><td class="tab2c2 tdStyle0"><a href="#chIV">THE CASTLE OF GATH     </a></td></tr>
<tr><td class="tab2c1 tdStyle1">V.</td><td class="tab2c2 tdStyle0"><a href="#chV">MANSEL TAKES OFF THE GLOVES     </a></td></tr>
<tr><td class="tab2c1 tdStyle1">VI.</td><td class="tab2c2 tdStyle0"><a href="#chVI">THE LOVE OF A LADY     </a></td></tr>
<tr><td class="tab2c1 tdStyle1">VII.</td><td class="tab2c2 tdStyle0"><a href="#chVII">WE PRACTISE TO DECEIVE     </a></td></tr>
<tr><td class="tab2c1 tdStyle1">VIII.</td><td class="tab2c2 tdStyle0"><a href="#chVIII">OUT OF SIGHT, OUT OF MIND     </a></td></tr>
<tr><td class="tab2c1 tdStyle1">IX.</td><td class="tab2c2 tdStyle0"><a href="#chIX">FULL MEASURE     </a></td></tr>
</table>

<hr class="pbk" />

<p class="line" style="text-align:center;margin-top:3em;margin-bottom:2em;"><span style="font-size:x-large">PERISHABLE GOODS</span></p>

<div><h1 class="nobreak" id="chI">CHAPTER I<br /><span style="font-size:smaller"> FIRST BLOOD</span></h1></div>

<p class="pindent">It was in October, 1926, that George Hanbury
and I first set up house in Wiltshire; and,
since for the next six months we hunted four
days a week, yet would commit to no one the
pleasant task of setting our home in order,
I do not think we slept out of Maintenance—for
from time immemorial that has been the
name of the place—more than seven times.
But two of the visits I paid stand out of
my memory, and, as they bear upon the
matters which I am to tell, I will set them
down.</p>

<p class="pindent">In the first week of December the wedding
of one of my cousins took me to town.</p>

<p class="pindent">Now neither Hanbury nor I would have
dreamed of visiting London without calling
on Jonathan Mansel, whose flat was in
Cleveland Row; for we three had made our
fortune together and together had proved
the stuff of which friendship is made. That
apart, Mansel was the very finest gentleman
that ever I knew: his ways were quiet, and
his address was simple; but there was a
natural royalty about him such as, I think,
few monarchs have been able to boast.</p>

<p class="pindent">I started betimes and travelled to London
by road, and the clock of St. James’s Palace
was striking nine as I turned out of Marlborough
Gate into Cleveland Row. Except
for my servant, Bell, I was alone.</p>

<p class="pindent">Here let me say that it was Mansel who had
taught me the virtue of being early abroad
and, particularly, of taking a journey before
the world was awake; “for,” said he, “the
dawn you may nearly always have to yourself,
and, since it is the fairest of the hours,
that a free man should lose it is more than
lamentable.”</p>

<p class="pindent">I had no need to ring, for, when I had
mounted the stairs, I found Mansel’s hall-door
open and his body-servant, Carson,
watching two workmen who were busy about
its lock. He took me directly to the study,
where Mansel was standing before a cheerful
fire.</p>

<p class="pindent">“Ah, William,” says he, “I’m glad to see
you. How was it you didn’t ring?”</p>

<p class="pindent">I told him.</p>

<p class="pindent">“That’s right,” said he. “Those fellows
are changing the lock. Yesterday this flat
was entered—by some person or persons
unknown.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Thieves?” said I.</p>

<p class="pindent">“Thieves,” said Mansel.</p>

<p class="pindent">At once I looked at the wall, where I knew
there had hung a monstrance. This was
golden and jewelled, and, though there was
plate-glass about it, I could have forced the
case in two minutes of time. But the
monstrance was there.</p>

<p class="pindent">“And they missed that?” said I, pointing.</p>

<p class="pindent">“They didn’t come for that,” said Mansel.</p>

<p class="pindent">For a moment we looked at each other:
then I sat down in a chair and took out a
cigarette.</p>

<p class="pindent">“They came for my papers,” said Mansel.
“And got them.” He pointed to his writing-table.
“In the right-hand pedestal of that
is a little safe. They cut it open and took
my papers away. There were fifty sovereigns
there and five hundred pounds in notes:
but they didn’t take them: so it looks as
though they meant me to understand that
they came for my papers alone.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Were there papers of value?” said I.</p>

<p class="pindent">Mansel frowned. Then he moved swiftly
to a window and stood, looking down upon
the street. So he stayed for some moments,
because, I am sure, he would not trust his
voice.</p>

<p class="pindent">Presently—</p>

<p class="pindent">“They were of interest,” he said, “to no
one but me.”</p>

<p class="pindent">I was concerned, for Mansel was plainly
moved, and, though I knew no more than the
man in the moon the nature of the stolen
papers, I had never before seen him betray
himself.</p>

<p class="pindent">At length—</p>

<p class="pindent">“What’s to be done?” said I.</p>

<p class="pindent">“Nothing,” said Mansel, turning. “But,
as you know, Chandos, I have a dangerous
enemy, and, if he should study those papers, he
might see a line of attack which would hit
me hard.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Us,” I said quickly.</p>

<p class="pindent">“Us,” said Mansel, and smiled.</p>

<p class="pindent">And there we left the business, for that
was clearly his will: but, though we spoke
of it no more, I could not get it out of my
mind, for I knew as well as did Mansel that
the theft was the work of ‘Rose’ Noble and
that it was not to be thought of that he would
fail to perceive the significance of his spoil.</p>

<p class="pindent">‘Rose’ Noble was a sinister man, and,
though he came but seldom into the light,
was undoubtedly concerned in some of the
greatest robberies of his time. He was never
taken, and the police of more than one country
feared his name, for he had a reputation so
evil as to be almost fabulous and was commonly
believed by those who knew him to
be gifted with second sight. That he deserved
this fame I can testify, for Mansel, Hanbury
and I had made our fortune in his teeth: we
had more than one brush with him and found
him a monster of iniquity, bold, swift and
strong, in whom there was no pity at all. I
do not say that he had second sight; but
his instinct was supernatural, and I do not
think that any living being could deceive this
terrible man.</p>

<p class="pindent">Now, had we not made our fortune, ‘Rose’
Noble would have made his; and, since nine
hundred thousand pounds is a huge sum of
money to forego, I was not greatly surprised
that he was, so to speak, returning to the
charge: and, as it was Mansel that had
captained our enterprise, it was, I suppose,
natural that ‘Rose’ Noble should pitch upon
him. How he would use the papers which
he had stolen I could not think, but Mansel
had said plainly that they could be turned
to his hurt, and his demeanour had shown me
that this hurt might be very sore.</p>

<p class="pindent">On my return to Maintenance I told
George Hanbury my news, to find that he
shared my concern: but, since Mansel had
promised to apprise us if trouble came, yet
week after week went by and brought no
message, we began to believe our apprehension
baseless and the robbery nothing more signal
than a flash in the pan.</p>

<p class="pindent">It was early in the following April that
Hanbury and I spent three fine days at
White Ladies in the New Forest, that is to
say, at Mansel’s country home. This he
shared with his cousins, whose name was
Pleydell. It was not our first visit, but the
Pleydells were absent when we had been
there before, and, though the four Sargents
in the gallery had told us what to expect, I
do not think that either of us believed that
all five members of one family could prove
so charming.</p>

<p class="pindent">Adèle Pleydell was the youngest and had
married Captain Pleydell five years before: I
learned later that she was American by birth.
She and her husband seemed very young for
their age. Major and Daphne Pleydell were
clearly older and were by one consent treated as
the heads of the house. Yet all were equal;
and, when once Adèle Pleydell affirmed that
she was an interloper and the only one of
them whose ancestors had not known White
Ladies, there was an amicable uproar, and
Major Pleydell said gravely, “That I regard
as one of the misfortunes of our House.”</p>

<p class="pindent">She was a tall, slim girl, very graceful and
wonderfully and beautifully made. Her face
was lovely; her thick, dark hair, lustrous;
the light in her fine, brown eyes, a glorious
thing. She was quiet, yet tireless and seemed
to do all things well: she could drive a car
and could ride with any man: yet she was
always maidenly and looked as delicate
a-cock-horse as when, in silk and satin, she
sat to a piano and lifted her exquisite voice.
She was naturally eager and responsive, and
I shall always see her, as did Sargent—with
her beautiful lips parted and her soft, brown
eyes alight.</p>

<p class="pindent">If the others were less attractive, that was
no fault of theirs, for I think Adèle Pleydell
would have diminished anyone. She was
plainly their darling, yet did not seem to
know this; and, since she was very quick-witted,
this one simplicity made her the
more worshipful.</p>

<p class="pindent">Hanbury and I, as was natural, fell down
at her feet, and I am proud to remember that
she made us free of her friendship, before we
had known her an hour.</p>

<p class="pindent">So, indeed, did they all: and I do not think
I ever paid a visit one half so agreeable.</p>

<p class="pindent">Much was made of the adventure to which
I have already referred, and, when Major
Pleydell proposed that they should go fishing in
Carinthia later that year and then explore
the very scenes of our endeavour, the idea
was heartily received.</p>

<p class="pindent">“And you’ll come and stay with us,” said
Daphne Pleydell, addressing Hanbury and
me. “If they will let us the farm we rented
before, we shall have plenty of room, and
Jonah’s a poor showman when it comes to
talking of himself.”</p>

<p class="pindent">That this was so I proved the very next
day, for I rode with Adèle in the morning
at six o’clock and found she knew next to
nothing of what Mansel had done. Be
sure I enlightened her, if only for Justice’
sake.</p>

<p class="pindent">When I had finished, she set her chin in
the air.</p>

<p class="pindent">“Tell me,” she said. “Is ‘Rose’ Noble
the man to take this lying down? I mean,
nine hundred thousand is a bag of money to
lose.”</p>

<p class="pindent">I suppose I hesitated, for her head was
round in an instant, and her steady, brown
eyes were on mine.</p>

<p class="pindent">“Didn’t you know,” I said, “that Mansel
was lately robbed?”</p>

<p class="pindent">She let out a cry of excitement and checked
her horse.</p>

<p class="pindent">“I never knew,” she said. And presently,
“Go on.”</p>

<p class="pindent">I shook my head.</p>

<p class="pindent">“It’s not my secret,” I said. “As it is,
I’ve said too much.”</p>

<p class="pindent">With that, I would have gone forward, but
she leaned down and caught my rein.</p>

<p class="pindent">“Tell me,” she pleaded, “tell me. I
swear I’ll not breathe a word.”</p>

<p class="pindent">In the end I yielded, and, before we were
back at White Ladies, she knew as much
as I.</p>

<p class="pindent">When I said I was concerned, she laughed.</p>

<p class="pindent">“I snuff a romance,” she cried. “Jonah,
the celibate, has had some passionate affair,
and he’s frightened to death that ‘Rose’
Noble will bring it out. But he never will.
You can’t blackmail a man for playing the
game: and Jonathan Mansel’s never done
anything else.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“That I believe,” said I. “But why was
he troubled?”</p>

<p class="pindent">The lady shrugged her shoulders.</p>

<p class="pindent">“A celibate sees a scandal in every bow.
The memory of the most harmless flirtation
is a millstone round Jonah’s neck.”</p>

<p class="pindent">Her interpretation relieved me, for I was
sure she was wise; but, though I was greatly
tempted to share it with George, I did not
care to admit that I, and not Mansel, had
told Adèle’ of the theft. So I held my
peace.</p>

<p class="pindent">The next day we left for Wiltshire promising
soon to return. Yet we did not, though our
homes were but fifty miles apart; for with
the coming of summer there was much to be
done at Maintenance, and, though the hunting
was over, we had our hands full.</p>

<hr class="tbk" />

<p class="pindent">The Pleydells and Jonathan Mansel left
for Carinthia in July.</p>

<p class="pindent">Mansel was soon to come back, for he had
business at home; and then, on the first of
September, he and George Hanbury and I
were to go out together by road.</p>

<p class="pindent">And so it fell out—though not as we had
expected: for, though Mansel came leisurely
to England, he took the road back to Carinthia,
like a man possessed. And Hanbury and I
with him.</p>

<p class="pindent">On the thirtieth day of August we dined in
Cleveland Row, to settle the hour of departure
and other things.</p>

<p class="pindent">Our plans were simple and soon laid.</p>

<p class="pindent">We were to meet at Folkestone and cross
by the morning boat; and, since it seemed
idle to take two cars, yet send three servants
by train, we arranged to keep two with us
and to send the third to Salzburg in charge
of our heavier stuff. As luck would have it,
all three had done this journey before—for
Rowley, Hanbury’s old servant, had lately
re-entered his service—and, since they were
all efficient, any one of the three could be
trusted to shift for himself: but, as Carson
and Bell were accustomed to handling a car,
but Rowley was not, the latter was chosen
to take our baggage by train.</p>

<p class="pindent">Not until the cloth had been drawn did
Mansel tell us that he had some unfortunate
news.</p>

<p class="pindent">“Boy Pleydell,” he said, “Adèle’s husband,
has broken his leg. I heard this morning.
Years ago, not twenty-five miles from the
scene of his accident, he broke a couple of
ribs; so it looks as though Carinthia was
bad for his health. However, there’s nothing
to be done. He’s under a Salzburg surgeon,
and I’m taking out thirty novels to help him
to pass the time.”</p>

<p class="pindent">Here the door was opened, and Carson
came in with a note. This was addressed to
Mansel and marked ‘Immediate.’</p>

<p class="pindent">“Who brought this?” said Mansel, taking
it up.</p>

<p class="pindent">“The porter found it on the steps, sir, one
minute ago.”</p>

<p class="pindent">Mansel asked us to excuse him and broke
the seal.</p>

<p class="pindent">After a little he gave me the letter to
read.</p>

<div class="blockquote">

<p class="pindent"><span class="it">The stolen goods will be returned on the
receipt by the Manager of the —— Bank,
Zurich, of your cheque for five hundred thousand
pounds. This sum you can raise, if you please.
No time should be wasted for the goods are
perishable.</span></p>

<p class="line" style="text-align:right;margin-right:0em;"><span class="it">August 30th.</span></p>

</div>

<p class="pindent">The body of the letter was written in a
clerkly hand, but the date had been rudely
added, I suppose, that day.</p>

<p class="pindent">I passed the letter to George and turned to
Mansel.</p>

<p class="pindent">“ ‘Perishable’?” said I. “ ‘Perishable?’
What does he mean?”</p>

<p class="pindent">“I can’t think,” said Mansel slowly, knitting
his brows. “And why has he waited
nine months?”</p>

<p class="pindent">“It must be ‘Rose’ Noble,” said Hanbury,
looking up from the sheet: “for nobody
else would know you could raise such a sum.
Otherwise, I should say that the writer was
out of his mind. I mean, half a million for
some papers. . . .”</p>

<p class="pindent">“I agree,” said Mansel. “It’s fantastic.
I value them certainly: but I wouldn’t give
more than a hundred to get them back. If
as much. I can’t understand it,” he continued,
taking the letter again; “for ‘Rose’
Noble must know what they’re worth rather
better than I.”</p>

<p class="pindent">For a while we sat silent, for there was
nothing to say: but I could not help
wondering what was the nature of the papers
which ‘Rose’ Noble held and reflecting that,
until we knew that, neither George nor I
could make any useful remark.</p>

<p class="pindent">Mansel was speaking in a quiet, even
tone.</p>

<p class="pindent">“The papers are the letters of a girl—occasional
letters and notes—in all, I suppose
ten or twelve. Their matter is so casual and
ordinary that I feared that ‘Rose’ Noble
would wonder why I had kept them safe. They
were in order of date, with her photograph.
I feared he would think that she meant
something to me. I mean, <span class="it">that was the only
explanation</span> of my keeping so carefully such
artless documents.”</p>

<p class="pindent">There was a long silence, and all that
Adèle had said came to my mind with a rush.
And I could have laughed for relief, but that
I knew that ‘Rose’ Noble was no fool.</p>

<p class="pindent">At length—</p>

<p class="pindent">“I still see no daylight,” said Hanbury.
“He offers you those letters back. When
you ignore his offer, what will he do?”</p>

<p class="pindent">Mansel shrugged his shoulders.</p>

<p class="pindent">“He may send them to her husband,” he
said. “I would very much rather he didn’t,
but that’s as far as I go.”</p>

<p class="pindent">Again I took the letter and read it through.</p>

<p class="pindent">“ ‘The goods are perishable,’ ” I said.
“That’s a curious way of saying ‘I’m going
to send them to him.’ ”</p>

<p class="pindent">“I agree,” said Hanbury. “And it’s not
at all like ‘Rose’ Noble. He always made
himself clear.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Painfully clear,” said I, and could have
bitten out my tongue.</p>

<p class="pindent">But Mansel gave no sign of having heard
what I said.</p>

<p class="pindent">Then a bell was rung, and, sitting in
breathless silence, we heard a servant pass to
the flat’s front door.</p>

<p class="pindent">The next moment Carson entered, bearing
a telegram.</p>

<p class="pindent">Mansel ripped open the envelope, glanced
at the sheet and clapped his hands to his face.</p>

<p class="pindent">The three of us stared at him.</p>

<p class="pindent">Presently—</p>

<p class="pindent">“Tell the man to wait,” he said quietly.
“He shall have an answer in five minutes’
time.”</p>

<p class="pindent">Carson withdrew.</p>

<p class="pindent">Mansel rose to his feet and handed the
telegram to me:</p>

<div class="blockquote">

<p class="pindent"><span class="it">Return Adèle disappeared shall I call in
police Pleydell.</span></p>

</div>

<p class="pindent">“Good God,” I cried, rising.</p>

<p class="pindent">Hanbury snatched the form from my hand.</p>

<p class="pindent">“You were quite right, Chandos,” said
Mansel. “ ‘Rose’ Noble has a way of making
himself painfully clear.”</p>

<p class="pindent">I could only stare, and Mansel gave a
short laugh.</p>

<p class="pindent">“Let me do the same,” he said. “<span class="it">The
letters he took had been written to me by Adèle.</span>”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Oh, my God,” said Hanbury.</p>

<p class="pindent">“And, when he says ‘stolen goods,’ he’s
not referring to the letters, but to something
more—more valuable, <span class="it">something which ‘disappeared’
a few hours ago</span>.”</p>

<p class="pindent">Not until then did the scales fall from my
eyes: but though I would have spoken, I
could not utter a word.</p>

<p class="pindent">I watched Mansel pick up the letter and
read it through.</p>

<p class="pindent">“ ‘Perishable goods,’ ” he said quietly,
speaking as though he were alone. “Yes.
I suppose you might call <span class="it">Adèle in ‘Rose’
Noble’s hands</span>—‘perishable goods.’ ”</p>

<hr class="tbk" />

<p class="pindent">There was champagne on ice on a sideboard,
and Mansel opened a bottle and poured the
wine.</p>

<p class="pindent">When we had drunk, he sat down and
wrote his reply:</p>

<div class="blockquote">

<p class="noindent"><span class="it">Pleydell Poganec St. Martin Carinthia</span></p>

<p class="noindent"><span class="it">On no account</span></p>

<p class="line" style="text-align:right;margin-right:0em;"><span class="it">Mansel.</span></p>

</div>

<p class="pindent">And when this had been dispatched, he
picked up ‘Rose’ Noble’s letter and lighted
a cigarette.</p>

<p class="pindent">His agitation cannot have been over, but
all sign of it was gone; and from this time on
until the end, he was, as always, the coolest
and most patient of us all. Few men, I
think could have maintained such mastery
of themselves; but Mansel’s self-control was
absolute, and, though it was now to be proved
as surely no man’s has ever been proved
before, it never failed and seldom enough
gave any sign of strain. Indeed, I often
think that the flash of feeling he showed, when
the telegram was brought in, was because
when he read it, he knew that his secret was
ours. Had ‘Rose’ Noble’s letter followed
instead of preceding the telegram, he never
would have told us the nature of the papers
which had lain in his safe, and I am sure that
neither George Hanbury nor I would ever
have suspected the truth. Yet I am glad we
knew it and I think that, now it was done,
Mansel was glad also; for, be a man never so
reserved, there is a pitch of trouble which he is
thankful to share.</p>

<p class="pindent">After a little, Mansel folded the letter and
held it up.</p>

<p class="pindent">“I am not going to act,” said he, “upon
the suggestion here made, because, for one
thing, such a sum is ruinous, and, for another,
I do not trust ‘Rose’ Noble.”</p>

<p class="pindent">I got to my feet.</p>

<p class="pindent">“We’re all three in this,” I said. “That’s
abundantly clear. If he’d drawn blank in
this flat he’d have started on George or on me.
But, whichever of us he’d attacked, his
price would have been the same.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“That’s beyond doubt,” said Hanbury.
“He’s out to recover the fortune: and,
not knowing how much it came to, he’s put
it as high as he dares.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Exactly,” said I. “Very well. My share
was two hundred thousand: in two days’
time you shall have three fourths of that
back.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Same here,” said Hanbury.</p>

<p class="pindent">“I know that,” said Mansel. “Thank
you. But it would break her heart. Sooner
or later she would most surely find out, and
then—well, you can’t lay anyone under a
debt like that. It’s not to be thought of.
And, since, as I say, I do not trust ‘Rose’
Noble, I think it will be convenient to count
this document out.”</p>

<p class="pindent">With that, he put the letter towards a
candle’s flame, but after a moment, withdrew
it and put it away in his case.</p>

<p class="pindent">“So all that we know,” he continued, “is
that Adèle has disappeared: and, since my
cousin, her husband, is out of action and we
three know Carinthia as the palm of our
hand, we are naturally going to seek her with
all our might. Of course we <span class="it">suspect</span>
abduction: I think anyone would. <span class="it">But that
is all.</span> Have I made myself clear?”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Yes,” said I.</p>

<p class="pindent">“Good,” said Mansel. “And now please
don’t talk for a minute. I want to think.”</p>

<p class="pindent">I was glad to sit still, with my head in my
hands, for the turn of events had shocked me,
and I felt as though I were dreaming some
disagreeable dream.</p>

<p class="pindent">The disclosure of Mansel’s secret, the
unconscionable daring of ‘Rose’ Noble, the
horror of the plight of Adèle had dealt me
three swingeing blows; but what had hit me
still harder was the sudden appreciation that,
thanks to our talk in the forest, <span class="it">Adèle herself
must now know that she was the very lady that
Mansel loved</span>.</p>

<p class="pindent">What Mansel would have said, had he
known this, I dared not think: but I was
quite certain that, when he found it out, as
he most surely would, he would be most
particular never to see her again.</p>

<p class="pindent">This was no conjecture, for I knew the man.</p>

<p class="pindent">Full measure he gave in all things, though
it were to his own beggary; and that he
would palter where a girl’s heart was concerned
was unimaginable.</p>

<p class="pindent">Adèle was his cousin’s wife, at once his
liege lady and his familiar friend: that much
I had seen with my eyes: there never was,
I believe, so gentle a relation. That the one
valued this was patent: it was, I suppose,
the light of the other’s life. And now it was
soon to founder, sunk by Mansel’s own hand,
rather than let come into the shallows of
embarrassment.</p>

<p class="pindent">The thought that my tongue would be to
blame for this most bitter upshot haunted me
for days, although, as I shall show, I need
have had no concern. Indeed, throughout
our venture Mansel bore himself with such
exalted gallantry that I have often thought
since that, though he could not have known
of the speech I had had with Adèle, yet he
knew in his heart that she would know why
she had been taken and that he was carrying
her colours for the first and last time.</p>

<p class="pindent">My mind being so exercised, I do not find
it surprising that I cannot clearly remember
all that was said that evening, but I know
that Mansel determined to sail the next night,
but not before then, because he must have a
day in which to prepare for the battle to
which we were now to go.</p>

<p class="pindent">Rowley was to leave with our baggage by
an earlier train and Hanbury was to change
the arrangements for shipping the cars.</p>

<p class="pindent">Mansel’s Rolls-Royce was furnished with
secret lockers and trays, but ours had no
such fittings, and, since we must now carry
arms, he gave me a note to his coachbuilder
and bade me seek him the next morning at
eight o’clock. While he and his men were at
work, fitting a hidden coffer, Carson and I
together were to test and prepare the two
cars, so that, with luck, if need be, they
could run for a month on end without attention.</p>

<p class="pindent">Bell was to cross to France by a morning
boat, there to buy food and petrol against
our coming and to promise ten thousand
francs to the officials concerned if we were
clear of the Customs in half an hour.</p>

<p class="pindent">From the port we should drive to Salzburg
as hard and as straight as we could and thence
direct to St. Martin, for that was the name
of the village which served the Pleydells’
farm.</p>

<p class="pindent">That Adèle was in Austria seemed certain,
for without her passport and against her will
she could hardly be taken out: moreover
the countryside lent itself to violence, for
much of it was most solitary, and the lives
of its inhabitants were too strait for them
to intrude upon matters with which they had
no concern. I suppose there were constables
of sorts, though I never saw one, except, of
course, in the towns: and they would have
shrugged their shoulders upon any business
less homely than a breach of the local peace.
For this, indeed, we were thankful, for
official notice of the matter was the last
thing we desired: this for more than one
reason, but most of all because, so far from
aiding, it would have put our enterprise in
deadly peril.</p>

<p class="pindent">I have no doubt at all that, had the police
been called in, Adèle would have paid with
her life for their assistance. The fight was
between us and ‘Rose’ Noble, and the bare
threat of an ally to whom, if he lost, ‘Rose’
Noble would have to answer, would have been
instantly silenced in the most dreadful and
effective of ways. Another man might have
balked at so detestable a crime, but ‘Rose’
Noble was ruthless and would, I think, have
slain ten pawns, had they stood in the way
of his safety or revenge. I verily believe it
was this terrible quality, if, indeed it can be
so called, to which he owed his immunity, for,
while ‘dead men tell no tales,’ it has but to
be known that a man keeps that for his
motto and those who have to do with him
will tell none either.</p>

<p class="pindent">It was midnight before we parted, and three
o’clock of the morning before I fell asleep:
but six hours later the coachbuilder was
urging his men, and Carson and I were at
work. Except that we drove to St. James’s
and back again, we laboured incessantly till
four, but, when I reported to Mansel at
five o’clock, the cars were as ready for the
road as the wit of man could make them and
both were at hand in his garage by Stable
Yard. There they were packed and loaded by
Carson alone, and at half past six they were
standing in Cleveland Row.</p>

<p class="pindent">Rowley and Bell were gone, so we were but
four to travel as far as Dieppe: yet in a way
we were five, for Tester, Mansel’s Sealyham,
went with us, and, if he was but a dog, he
was ever better company than many a man.</p>

<p class="pindent">He was fine to look at, very strong and
healthy, intelligent beyond belief. Given
an order that he could appreciate, he would
obey it to the death. He knew no fear, was
very quick and cheerful, would countenance
no one but those his master had commended
and worshipped Mansel himself with the most
lively devotion that I have ever seen.</p>

<p class="pindent">At a quarter to seven we passed out of
Cleveland Row.</p>

<p class="pindent">We made no secret of our going, simply
because it was a movement we could not hide:
“all the same,” said Mansel, “it doesn’t
very much matter if they do send ‘Rose’
Noble a wire. He never expected that I
should pay out of hand: but he means me
to find it hopeless and then to put on the
screw.”</p>

<p class="pindent">We dined at Newhaven and saw the cars
taken on board: then we turned into our
cabins to take what rest we could, for,
though Mansel had not said so, we all four
knew very well that, until we were come to
Carinthia, we should none of us sleep again.</p>

<hr class="tbk" />

<p class="pindent">The steward roused me by order half an
hour before we were due, and I came on deck
to find a clean morning and two or three
lights marking the coast of France.</p>

<p class="pindent">Mansel had told me to breakfast before I
left the boat, so after a turn or two, I went
below, there to find him and Hanbury making
a wretched meal.</p>

<p class="pindent">Whilst I was waiting to join them, he gave
me a map.</p>

<p class="pindent">“We must keep together,” he said: “but,
as we can’t see ahead, this is in case we part.
Don’t use it at all until then. I’ve marked the
route in blue pencil, so that you can’t go
wrong. I’d better take the lead. I shall go
pretty fast, but please try to keep me in
sight. If I lose you, I shall slow up, but I
don’t want to have to do that. If you want
to attract my attention, use your horn. I’ll
take Carson to start with; but later we might
make a change, and you or Hanbury drive
for a while with me.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“First stop, Carinthia,” said George.</p>

<p class="pindent">“If you please,” said Mansel. “I hope
we shall be at St. Martin in twenty-four hours.
We must water and feed, of course, and fill
up the cars: but I wired to my cousin that
we should be there by dawn, and I rather
fancy, poor fellow, he’ll watch the clock.”</p>

<p class="pindent">We had already decided that, though we
might rest at Poganec after our run, we should
leave our baggage at Villach, at an inn which
we knew; for not only was this town more
central, but to have to ‘report progress,’ as
we should if we stayed with the Pleydells,
whenever we came or went would be intolerable.
This may seem a harsh decision, as
they were so deeply concerned, but we should
be dealing, we knew, with life and death, and
that we should be hampered by any sort of
obligation was not to be thought of. We did
not expect, however, to have much use for
a base, but to be constantly moving in search
or pursuit of Adèle: and this was why
Mansel had been insistent that the cars
should demand no attention, yet withstand
incessant use.</p>

<p class="pindent">As the boat entered the harbour, we came
on deck and presently made out Bell, who
was standing with three officials on the edge
of the quay. So soon as he saw us, he pointed
us out to his companions, one of whom
boarded the steamer before she was fairly at
rest. I met him with our papers, and, since
they were what he had come for, he took
them without a word.</p>

<p class="pindent">This was well enough, but the cars had to
be unshipped, and, since the boat-train was
waiting, the ordinary registered baggage must,
as always, be taken off first. That this would
be a long business seemed very probable, for
there was but one crane manned, and, as
luck would have it, there were many passengers.</p>

<p class="pindent">As the man who had taken our papers
regained the quay, the main gangways were
run inboard, and I saw for the first time that
Bell had a watch in his hand. A little way
off was a lad in charge of a basket and a
small stack of petrol cans.</p>

<p class="pindent">“Full marks to Bell,” said Mansel.
“They’re going to take the cars first.”</p>

<p class="pindent">And so indeed they did—such is the power
of money.</p>

<p class="pindent">Mansel’s Rolls was ashore before any of
us, and, at a sign from Bell, the lad with the
basket began to fill her tank. As the second
car was landed, the man who had taken our
papers came running out of some office with
the documents stamped and signed, and,
after a glance at our number-plates, handed
me back the wallet and raised his hat. Then
our baggage was hastily chalked, and, as
Mansel started his engine, Bell put away his
watch.</p>

<p class="pindent">“We’re free to proceed, sir,” he said,
touching his hat. “By your leave I’ll pay
them the money and find you outside.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Well done indeed,” said Mansel. “How
long have we been?”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Just under a quarter of an hour, sir. I
promised them five thousand if they did it
in half an hour, and I said I’d double the
money if they did it in half the time.”</p>

<p class="pindent">With that, he disappeared, and Hanbury
started our engine, as Mansel, with Carson
and Tester, drove off the quay.</p>

<p class="pindent">The lad charged to fill our tank was a
clumsy workman, so I told him to stand
aside and did it myself: and George descended
and helped me by taking the caps from the
cans.</p>

<p class="pindent">“You drive first,” he said. “It won’t
be light for some time, and your eyes are
keener than mine.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Very well,” said I.</p>

<p class="pindent">The landing of the registered baggage was
now in full swing, and the quay was alive
with porters, bustling to and fro in the
lamplight and making less progress than
noise: and, since the baggage itself was
being swung over our heads, I was glad to
screw its cap to the tank and to take my seat
in the car.</p>

<p class="pindent">Hanbury picked up the basket and followed
me in.</p>

<p class="pindent">The eastern sky was pale, but it was yet
very dark.</p>

<p class="pindent">Now as we were moving slowly towards
the street, I became aware of some paper
upon which I seemed to have sat down. So
soon as I had a hand free, I plucked this from
under my legs, to find it a dirty envelope,
bearing no superscription, but sealed.</p>

<p class="pindent">“What’s that?” said George, peering.</p>

<p class="pindent">“It must have fallen from the baggage,”
I said. “The nets passed over the car. See
what it is. If it’s a bill of lading, we’d better
give it back.”</p>

<p class="pindent">As Hanbury ripped open the envelope, Bell
stepped out of the shadows on to the running
board.</p>

<p class="pindent">“Captain Mansel’s fifty yards on, sir; on
the right of the street.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Very good,” said I, turning across the
lines.</p>

<p class="pindent">“It’s not a bill of lading,” said George
sharply.</p>

<p class="pindent">“What then?” said I, setting a foot on
the brake.</p>

<p class="pindent">By way of answer, he held it to the light of
the lamp which illumined the instrument
board.</p>

<p class="pindent">It was a half-sheet of notepaper on which
were printed four words:</p>

<div class="lgc" style=""> 
<p class="line"><span class="it">The goods are perishable.</span></p>
</div> 

<div><h1 id="chII">CHAPTER II<br /><span style="font-size:smaller"> WE TAKE THE FIELD</span></h1></div>

<p class="pindent">To show Mansel a memento so ugly went
against the grain: yet we dared not suppress
it, so I drove to where he sat waiting, and
Hanbury gave the paper into his hand.</p>

<p class="pindent">He glanced at it, turned it about and then
put it away.</p>

<p class="pindent">“Where did you find it?” he said.</p>

<p class="pindent">I told him on the seat of the car.</p>

<p class="pindent">At once he turned to Bell and asked him
to try to recall every person that he had seen
in the last two hours: “for,” said he, “one
of those men was a spy, and, though we can do
nothing now, it might be very convenient if
you would know him again.”</p>

<p class="pindent">Then he asked if I was ready and let in
his clutch. . . .</p>

<p class="pindent">The day was coming, but, so long as the
night lasted, we had the road to ourselves.
Taking advantage of this, Mansel went like
the wind, and, since all I could see was his
tail-light and this poor pointer vanished with
each dip and bend of the road, it was more
by luck than by cunning that I managed to
cling to his heels. Indeed, the first hour of
our journey imposed a continuous strain, for
he drove as though the way was familiar, but
I did not know it at all, and, what with fear
of leaving the road if I drove too fast, and
of losing my guiding light if I slackened
speed, I wished for the day with a fervour
which I think would have opened the eyes
of St. Paul himself.</p>

<p class="pindent">Yet, in a way, this trial stood me in stead,
for, when at last it was light and I could see
the landscape and Mansel’s Rolls scudding
before me like a gull, to follow behind seemed
child’s play and, though he went faster than
ever, I was able without any trouble to maintain
the pace which he set.</p>

<p class="pindent">The sun rose about six into a cloudless
sky, and, since rain had lately fallen, the
country was fresh to look on and smelled very
sweet. Mansel raised next to no dust, for this
had been laid by the rain and was not yet dry,
and, as the chill of the dawn changed to the
cool of the day, our passage became every
moment more agreeable. There was, however,
a look of heat in the heaven which there was
no mistaking.</p>

<p class="pindent">Our road was no longer so free as it had
been by night, but I was surprised to encounter
so little traffic, and, indeed, the clocks had
struck seven before the pace at which we
were travelling had to be sensibly reduced.</p>

<p class="pindent">At a quarter to eight we met our first
definite check in the shape of a level crossing,
the gates of which were closed.</p>

<p class="pindent">To make the best of the business, we halted
for a quarter of an hour, and, while Tester
was given his freedom, we ate and drank of
the food which Bell had brought.</p>

<p class="pindent">Mansel was plainly pleased with the pace
at which we had come, but insisted that now
was the time for Hanbury to take my place:
then he turned to Bell and asked if he had
recalled the people he had seen at Dieppe.</p>

<p class="pindent">“I’ve done my best, sir,” said Bell: “but
I fear there’s not very many I’d know
again.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“That remains to be seen,” said Mansel.
“But please try to bear them in mind, and
picture to yourself the time you spent on the
quay. I expect you walked up and down.
Try to remember if anyone was doing the
same.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Very good, sir,” said Bell obediently.</p>

<p class="pindent">Five minutes later I was sitting with
Mansel, and we were again under way.</p>

<p class="pindent">We had now come to roads that we had
travelled before, but, though the features of
the way seemed faintly familiar, I could not
have taken it safely without the aid of the
map nor have threaded a single town without
direction. Mansel, however, drove with the
utmost confidence, never hesitating where
the road forked or peering at any signpost, but
whipping through town after town as though
it were the place of his birth.</p>

<p class="pindent">When I remarked upon this, he said it was
nothing at all and that I knew the way to
Salzburg as well as did he, but that he
was using his knowledge, while I was not.</p>

<p class="pindent">“And that,” said he, “is why I’m badgering
Bell. Bell is observant, and I’ll lay a hundred
to one that he observed the fellow that left
that note. I don’t think I did, for when he
saw me coming, he probably made himself
scarce. And you were behind the car. But
Bell and he were both waiting for the boat
to come in. Well, there’s the making of a
clue. It’s slight enough in all conscience,
but—well, I don’t know where Adèle is, and
Austria’s quite a big place.” After a little, he
continued thoughtfully. “Memory’s a store-room,
that’s all: the store-room of things
you observe. If you’re observant, so much the
richer your store. But you must be a good
storeman—able to produce the requisite,
when the moment comes. Some time ago I
observed the way to Salzburg: and now
I’m producing it. Bell undoubtedly observed
the man who carried that note: let’s hope
he’ll be able to produce him—when the
moment comes.”</p>

<p class="pindent">We said no more at the time, and, being,
I suppose, more tired than I had suspected,
I fell asleep.</p>

<p class="pindent">When I awoke, it was noon, and the day
was immensely hot.</p>

<p class="pindent">Mansel was driving in the same effortless
way, looking very well content with his lot
and seeming to be perfectly fresh.</p>

<p class="pindent">When he saw that I was awake, he told me
that we should make Strasbourg in two hours’
time. We had stopped for fuel whilst I
slept, but that was all.</p>

<p class="pindent">Sure enough, we came to Strasbourg at
two o’clock, and at half-past two we were
lunching on German soil.</p>

<p class="pindent">Then I changed places with George, who
was white as a miller with dust, for the sun
had done its work, and, since there was next
to no wind, the cars would have had to travel
a mile apart if the second was to escape the
clouds which its fellow raised.</p>

<p class="pindent">The afternoon was made dreadful by the
heat and glare of the sun, which oppressed
us mercilessly and made the air so sultry that
our pace brought us no relief: I never found
shade so grateful in all my life, nor yet so
scarce, and how Mansel, who had had no
respite, bore the burden of that day so lightly
I never shall understand.</p>

<p class="pindent">Twice we were checked by the gates of
level crossings and once we stopped for fuel,
but these delays were too brief to be
refreshing, and I, for one, was thankful when
we came to rest at sundown by the side of a
little stream. Into this we were happy to
plunge our heads and shoulders, and, whilst
Mansel and I ate and drank, George and the
servants cleaned the windscreens and sponged
down and sluiced the cars—by no means a
fruitless exercise, for we were sick of the dust,
and the sight of the glistening coachwork did
us all good.</p>

<p class="pindent">Night came upon us soon after eight
o’clock, but a fine moon was westering, and
two and a half hours later we entered
Austria.</p>

<p class="pindent">At Salzburg we drove straight to the station,
where Rowley lay, stretched on our luggage,
fast asleep. It took but a moment to rouse
him and lift the trunks into the cars, and I
do not think this digression cost us five
minutes of time.</p>

<p class="pindent">So soon as we were clear of the city, a
halt was made, and Mansel called the servants
to listen to what he would say.</p>

<p class="pindent">“You all know what has happened,” he
said. “Mrs. Pleydell has disappeared.
Everything points to abduction—by no ordinary
gang. As one of the family, I should
in any event have done what I could: but,
with Captain Pleydell out of action, it’s up
to me to take charge. Very well. Here’s
my first order. Discuss this business with
no one. We’re certainly going to friends, but
we’re going to enemies too, <span class="it">and the latter are
already in touch.</span> I’ve had two letters already
warning me not to proceed.</p>

<p class="pindent">“We’re going to drop Rowley at Villach,
where he will go to bed. To-morrow he will
take four bedrooms and unpack all our
things. And he may as well order supper,
for we shall surely sleep there to-morrow
night.</p>

<p class="pindent">“The rest of us go to Poganec, and, whilst
we are there, Carson and Bell will stay with
and sleep in the cars.”</p>

<p class="pindent">Then he told Carson to drive and called for
Tester, and a moment later we were moving
again.</p>

<p class="pindent">All of us knew the way now, so there was
no thought of leading or being led, and though
I remember little—for Hanbury was driving
and I slept most of the way—I know that we
stopped at Villach, to find the inn shut, that
the landlord looked out of the window, with
an old-fashioned cap on his head and that,
when he saw who it was, he began to cry to
his household that at last his luck had
turned, for the best guests he ever had had
were come again.</p>

<p class="pindent">We were gone, however, before he had
opened the door, leaving Rowley in the
midst of the luggage, with his hand to his
hat.</p>

<p class="pindent">We were now in most handsome country,
very mountainous and closely wooded, with
streams and pastures lying in every dale:
the air was most soft and rich, and plainly
suited the engines, for the cars sailed over
the hills like giants refreshed.</p>

<p class="pindent">We swept through St. Martin, to hear the
church clock strike one, and ten minutes later
sighted a long low house, lying in the lap of
a meadow, with rising woods behind.</p>

<p class="pindent">This was Poganec: and I well remember
remarking how fantastic a picture it made,
for the moonlight was all about it and all
its windows were open and lights burning in
every room.</p>

<hr class="tbk" />

<p class="pindent">It was, I suppose, ten minutes before
Mansel came to a window upon the first
floor.</p>

<p class="pindent">“Will you two come up?” he said.</p>

<p class="pindent">The front door was open, and Hanbury
and I passed in.</p>

<p class="pindent">Major Pleydell met us at the top of the
stairs and brought us into a room at the back
of the house.</p>

<p class="pindent">Daphne Pleydell rose to greet us, and her
brother propped with pillows, called to us from
the bed. Beside him sat Mansel.</p>

<p class="pindent">As I went to take his hand—</p>

<p class="pindent">“Jonah can drive, can’t he?” he said with
a smile.</p>

<p class="pindent">Before I could answer—for I had some
sort of condolence upon my tongue—he began
to speak of the cars, reciting their qualities
with judgment and remembering runs he had
taken against the clock and, so, making
smooth an encounter which I had been
dreading more than I care to admit.</p>

<p class="pindent">“I’ve often followed Jonah,” he concluded,
“but I’ve never had to chase him when he
had his whip out and, to be perfectly honest,
I hope I never shall.” He laughed lightly.
“And now sit down, you two—anywhere
except on my leg—and Berry will bring you
some beer. I think you’ve earned it.”</p>

<p class="pindent">I tried to reply, but the words stuck in
my throat.</p>

<p class="pindent">I could not cope with such bravery. The
man was jesting: his eyes were steady and
his speech was firm, but the thick, dark hair
I remembered was white as snow.</p>

<p class="pindent">As Major Pleydell came forward, with a
glass in his hand—</p>

<p class="pindent">“And now to business,” he said.</p>

<p class="pindent">“To-day is Thursday. At seven on Monday
morning Adèle went out for a ride.
She rode in the direction of Sava, a village
ten miles away. Her mare came in on her
own at a quarter past eight. Everyone
turned out at once, but found nothing. The
mare was clean and unhurt. Inquiries were
made at all farms in the direction of Sava.
They proved fruitless. Nobody saw Adèle
on Monday morning. The day was hot, and
she was wearing breeches and boots, a white
silk shirt and gloves. She had no hat on.</p>

<p class="pindent">“Early on Tuesday morning Fitch found
one of her gloves. It was lying by the side
of the road almost exactly eleven miles from
here, but not in the direction of Sava.</p>

<p class="pindent">“Well, there you are. I’m afraid I’ve no
more to say.”</p>

<p class="pindent">There was a little silence, and presently
Mansel spoke.</p>

<p class="pindent">“You’ve had no demand for money?”</p>

<p class="pindent">His cousin looked away.</p>

<p class="pindent">“None,” he said quietly. “I’ve got the
money ready: it’s all I’ve been able to do.”
He stretched out a trembling hand. “There’s
five thousand pounds worth of notes in that
chest of drawers. They’ve only to come and
ask. But they—they don’t do that.”</p>

<p class="pindent">There was something so dark about the
way he said this as took us all three by
surprise: and this, I suppose, he was expecting,
for he let out the ghost of a laugh.</p>

<p class="pindent">“I know,” he said. “I didn’t get it at first.
You know, I made quite certain that they
were out for money. <span class="it">It never occurred to me
that Adèle had been taken for herself.</span>”</p>

<p class="pindent">Mansel started to his feet.</p>

<p class="pindent">“I don’t believe it,” he cried.</p>

<p class="pindent">“I know,” said the other calmly.
“Neither did I. But you’ll come round in
the end and face the facts—when the days
go by and you don’t find her, but no demand
is made; when the weeks go by and
I’m crawling round with a stick and people
are forgetting what she looked like——”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Oh, Boy, Boy,” wailed Daphne.</p>

<p class="pindent">“——but no demand is made; when——”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Never,” cried Mansel. “Never.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Then, why don’t they ask?” said the
other, with the sweat running down his
face.</p>

<p class="pindent">“They will,” said Mansel.</p>

<p class="pindent">The other shook his head.</p>

<p class="pindent">“What about the police?” he said suddenly.
“Why don’t you want them called
in?”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Because I want my hands free. If battle
and murder will help, I’m out to do both:
but I can’t do either, if I’ve got to apply for
a warrant before I can force a door. We’re
six men armed: we know how to work
together; and we’re not afraid of lying out
in the rain. Call in the police and you put
us out of court.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“That’s right,” said his cousin, nodding.
“The police wouldn’t do any good.” He
lay back and closed his eyes. “But, as
they’re not out for money, neither will
you.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“I know they’re out for money,” said
Mansel.</p>

<p class="pindent">“Face the facts,” said his cousin. “Seventy
hours since they took her, and no demand.
Face the facts, Jonah: and, when you’ve
had a good look at them, come back and try
to tell me not to turn my face to the wall.”</p>

<p class="pindent">There was a dreadful silence, broken only
by Daphne’s sobs.</p>

<p class="pindent">At last her brother called her and asked for
some drug.</p>

<p class="pindent">While she was pleading with him, we others
stole out of the room.</p>

<p class="pindent">I was confounded by this perversity of
Fortune and I dared not look at Mansel, for
here, at the outset of our venture, he was
faced with a choice of two evils, neither of
which, it seemed, he could possibly accept.</p>

<p class="pindent">To conceal the truth from his cousin was
to withhold water from a dying man: yet
how could he ever allow that he, <span class="it">and not her
husband</span>, had been offered the lady back?
Explain it as he would, the fact must arouse
misgivings in the steadiest mind: to a man
in his cousin’s condition, it would be plain
poison.</p>

<p class="pindent">Major Pleydell was speaking.</p>

<p class="pindent">“If they don’t make a demand, he’ll lose
his mind. He hasn’t slept since she went.
His hair was grey on Tuesday, and yesterday
it was white. If they’d only hold her to
ransom, he wouldn’t care. If they asked a
million, he wouldn’t care a damn. We
might not be able to pay it, but he’d know
she was safe and sound. But when the
hours go by and there’s no demand——”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Where have you looked?” said Mansel.</p>

<p class="pindent">The other stared at him.</p>

<p class="pindent">“Looked?” he said.</p>

<p class="pindent">“D’you mean to say,” cried Mansel,
“that you’ve been waiting for it to come by
post? Why, man alive, that’s the last agency
they’ll use! <span class="it">Haven’t you even looked in the
box in the gate?</span>”</p>

<p class="pindent">The front door was open and we pelted
out of the hall.</p>

<p class="pindent">Mansel cried to Hanbury and me to bring
some tools and a torch and, in spite of his
limp—for he was lame of a wound he had
had in the War—ran well ahead of his cousin
down the drive.</p>

<p class="pindent">It was seldom that he took some action
which I could not understand: but now I
was bewildered, for I knew as well as did he
that the box in the gate would be as bare as
my hand. Still there was no time to think,
and, Hanbury being gone with the tools, I
plucked a torch out of a pocket and ran in
his wake.</p>

<p class="pindent">The box was a doll’s-house business, cut out
of the gatepost itself, with a slit for letters
before and a little iron door behind. No doubt
it was meant to be used in days gone by,
for a man on horseback could reach the slit
from the road, but the door had not been
undone for many a year, although there
was nothing to show this upon the other
side.</p>

<p class="pindent">I held the torch, while Mansel played with
the chisel and presently forced the lock.</p>

<p class="pindent">As he wrenched the little door open, Major
Pleydell thrust in his hand.</p>

<p class="pindent">When he drew out a folded paper, I could
hardly believe my eyes.</p>

<div class="blockquote">

<p class="pindent"><span class="it">The stolen goods will be returned on the
receipt by the Manager of the —— Bank,
Zurich, of your cheque for five hundred thousand
pounds. This sum you can raise, if you please.
No time should be wasted, for the goods are
perishable.</span></p>

<p class="line" style="text-align:right;margin-right:1em;"><span class="it">August 30th.</span></p>

</div>

<p class="pindent">Before my wits were in order, Major
Pleydell was well up the drive, shouting for
Daphne and crying aloud his news.</p>

<p class="pindent">“It’s come!” he bellowed. “It’s come!”
“It’s been here since Monday. The demand.
. . .”</p>

<p class="pindent">As we walked after him—</p>

<p class="pindent">“Learn of me,” said Mansel. “<span class="it">Never burn
anything.</span>”</p>

<p class="pindent">When we came to the house, he called a
footman to serve us with food and drink
and himself went up to the chamber where
Captain Pleydell lay.</p>

<p class="pindent">Ten minutes later he returned, to say that
the latter was asleep.</p>

<hr class="tbk" />

<p class="pindent">A brief council was held the next morning
at a quarter to twelve, and the moment I
entered the bedroom I saw with half an eye
that the patient was a new man. He spoke
with eagerness, and the grey look was out
of his face. His sister sat beside him, with
shining eyes.</p>

<p class="pindent">There was no argument, and everything
went our way.</p>

<p class="pindent">All were agreed that the sum demanded
was fantastic and that the letter be ignored:
and, when Mansel said that we should leave
after lunch and should not return, Daphne
began to protest, but the sick man inclined
his head.</p>

<p class="pindent">“I thought that was coming,” he said.
“You were ever a dark horse, Jonah, and
dark horses train alone. But tell me where
I can find you and send me word when you
can.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“That I will do without fail.”</p>

<p class="pindent">It was then decided that the Pleydells
should take no action, whatever befell,
without communicating with us, that they
should accept no message as coming from us
unless one of us had brought it, but should
detain the messenger; and that we should
recognize no one as coming from them but
Major Pleydell or one of the servants we
knew.</p>

<p class="pindent">And, so far as I can remember, that was
all.</p>

<p class="pindent">Mansel had already ridden most of the way
to Sava and had driven with Major Pleydell
to the spot where the glove had been found:
he had also seen and talked with all the
servants employed about the farm; “and,
since,” he said, rising, “I believe them all
to be honest, though painfully unobservant,
this is where we come in.”</p>

<p class="pindent">Then he asked that Adèle’s dressing-case
should be sent for and packed with
such things as she would be glad to have.
This we were to take with us wherever we
went.</p>

<p class="pindent">Daphne left to arrange this, and we bade
Captain Pleydell “Good-bye.”</p>

<p class="pindent">For a moment he held my hand.</p>

<p class="pindent">“Adèle’s very lucky,” he said, “to have
such good friends.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Oh,” said I, “the boot’s on the other
leg.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Sleep well,” said Hanbury.</p>

<p class="pindent">Two minutes later the engines of the cars
were running, and Hanbury and I were about
to take our seats, when Mansel called us into
a parlour and shut the door.</p>

<p class="pindent">“It is inconceivable,” he said, “that
Adèle was taken by chance. Her movements
had been watched for some time. Let
me go further. They watched her ride
out on Monday and met her six miles
away.</p>

<p class="pindent">“Now no one was seen near Poganec, with
or without a car: it follows that their
observation post was distant, yet close to a
road, so that once they had seen her ride
out and the way she went, they could
instantly move to meet her—six miles away.
Very well. Now turn to the window and
lift up your eyes.”</p>

<p class="pindent">We did so, to see the breadth of a valley,
as fresh and green as you please, and, beyond,
a press of high hills, rising up very sudden
and wooded cap-à-pie. These lay, I afterwards
found, four miles away. High up
in their midst rose a fountain that fell
by leaps and rushes down to the valley
below, a considerable head of water, for
the trees could not hide it, and, from
where we stood, I could see its unbroken
length.</p>

<p class="pindent">“Can you see the bridge?” said Mansel.
“A fifth of the way down the fall.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Yes,” said Hanbury, and after a moment
or two I made it out.</p>

<p class="pindent">“Good,” said Mansel. “Now their
observation post was somewhere about that
bridge. A post in the woods would be
useless, for the trees would get in the way; but
that torrent commands Poganec; and a man
sitting there with a glass could see anyone
come and go. Then, again, that bridge
serves a road to Sava—the only road thereabouts.”</p>

<p class="pindent">I took a step to the window, but Mansel
stopped me at once.</p>

<p class="pindent">“I hope and believe,” he said, “that
they’re watching Poganec now. I mean, our
movements must interest them no end. So
don’t give them food for thought by looking
straight into their eyes.</p>

<p class="pindent">“And now come and look at this map.</p>

<p class="pindent">“Here’s Poganec, and there’s the bridge—due
South. We’re all going there at once.
But Chandos and I are going to come up from
the West, while Hanbury, Carson and Bell
will drive from St. Martin to Sava and come
from the East. We may find; we may draw
blank; we may meet our friends by the way.”
He turned to Hanbury. “Your way will
be much the longer, so, if, when you come to
the bridge, Chandos and I are not there, drive
on round to St. Martin and thence to Villach.
If you find anyone suspicious, detain him,
but not by force: if he won’t be detained,
follow him: drop Bell at the first cross roads,
to put us wise: but, whatever you do, don’t
lose him, for he’ll show us the way to
Adèle.”</p>

<p class="pindent">With that he put up the map, and two
minutes later the cars were clear of the drive
and were making towards St. Martin at a
leisurely speed. Not until we parted were
we to let them go.</p>

<p class="pindent">“There’s a road on the left,” said Mansel,
“somewhere just here.”</p>

<p class="pindent">With his words the turning appeared, and,
as we swung round, Hanbury flashed past our
tail-lamp in a pother of dust.</p>

<p class="pindent">Our road ran into the valley and lay in
full view of the bridge, and, since anyone
who was watching must now suspect our
move, we went like lightning till we came to
the foot of the hills and a pretty, white-walled
hamlet where four roads met.</p>

<p class="pindent">A woman, busy at a runnel, gave us good-day.</p>

<p class="pindent">“I’m looking for some friends,” said
Mansel. “Have you seen any car go
by?”</p>

<p class="pindent">“I only came in from the fields, sir, a
quarter of an hour ago. But no car has
passed since then.”</p>

<p class="pindent">Mansel thanked her and immediately turned
to the left.</p>

<p class="pindent">Almost at once the road rose into the woods,
doubling upon itself, like any serpent, and
so beset with foliage as to afford no view of
anything beyond a ribbon of sky.</p>

<p class="pindent">For a while there was no sound at all,
except the brush of our tires: but, after a
little, we could hear the roar of water some
distance away. This grew gradually louder,
until it quite stopped our ears, so that we
knew less than ever what each bend of the
road might bring forth.</p>

<p class="pindent">It was, I suppose, an ideal site for an
ambush, for with every turn you entered an
inner bailey of the wood, and, though upon
such a score we had nothing to fear, I remember
thinking that, where two men were at
variance, the odds were on him who came
first to such a place. Be that as it may,
our ears being stopped, there was nothing
to be done but watch: and this I know
I did with a quick pulse, for the scene
was set for a surprise as I have never
known it.</p>

<p class="pindent">It was soon evident that we were approaching
the bridge, for the noise of the fall was
thunderous and the pleasant smell of wet
earth was unmistakable. Indeed, an instant
later we saw the bridge not sixty paces away,
and at half that distance a car in the midst
of the road, with a man bent double beside
it, trying to pull off a wheel.</p>

<p class="pindent">He was so much engaged that we had stopped
alongside before he knew we were there,
and, when on a sudden he was aware of our
presence, he gaped at us and the Rolls as
at an apparition.</p>

<p class="pindent">Now this was not the way of a spy; and,
indeed, it was easy to see that the fellow
had nothing to do with those we sought.
His cloth apart—for he wore a clergyman’s
habit—one look at his face was enough.
The man was a genial simpleton, in whom
there was no guile. And I think Mansel
would have gone by, for his hand went out
to the brake, if the other’s delight to see us
had been less manifest.</p>

<p class="pindent">“You’re English,” he cried, twittering.</p>

<p class="pindent">“Yes,” said Mansel. “And we were to
meet a man here. By that bridge. But
we’re late for our appointment, and I’m
afraid he may have gone.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“No one was there,” said the other, “ten
minutes ago. And I’ve been there more
than an hour. But he might have come
since.”</p>

<p class="pindent">With that, before we could stop him, he
started to run to the bridge. We overtook
him halfway, for, fool though he looked, it
seemed prudent to be there first: but he
only sought to step on to our running-board
and, fouling the tool-chest, fell heavily into
the road.</p>

<p class="pindent">And there you have Hannibal Rouse, clerk
in holy orders. He was, I think, the embodiment
of that imaginary curate who has for
years been the target of an unkind age. The
man was futile. He was most garrulous,
seldom said anything worth saying and
laughed at everything he said: he was prodigal
of energy, seldom did anything worth doing
and bungled everything he did. I have never
known anyone whose company was so distracting;
and the patience with which Mansel
endured it was more than human. Yet out
of the fool came wisdom, and, but for this
pelting idiot, I do not believe we should ever
have traced Adèle.</p>

<p class="pindent">I helped the man to his feet, and, since,
in view of his report, there was nothing to
be gained by proceeding, Mansel berthed the
Rolls by the bridge and walked with us back
to his car.</p>

<p class="pindent">Rouse may be fairly judged by the fact
that he was seeking to change a wheel
without first raising his car by means of a
jack: and, when, perceiving that the wheel
was sound, we asked him why he wished to
change it, he insisted that its tire was punctured
and seemed dumbfounded to find it as
tight as a drum. It presently emerged that
another of his tires was flat and that he had
confused the two. He was not at all abashed
by these errors, but attributed them boldly to
his being “no engineer.”</p>

<p class="pindent">He then told us that he was touring and
cared not where he went, but proposed to
stay at Villach and prove the country round.
This was ill news enough; but when, after
staring upon Mansel, he presently addressed
him by name and then, in an ecstasy of
triumph, went on to remember White Ladies
and how he had attended some fête there
before the War, I know that I groaned in
spirit and wished the man at the devil.
But Mansel was perfectly civil, though something
cold.</p>

<p class="pindent">We had changed his wheel, in spite of
his assistance, and were upon the point of
leaving, when Hanbury arrived. This necessarily
delayed our going and gave Rouse time
to remember that he had a camera with him
with which he must photograph us all. We
protested that we could not wait, but, while
we were still protesting, the thing was done.
I confess that it did not delay us, for he took
his picture as we re-entered the cars, laughing
the while like a maniac and promising to
show us a proof.</p>

<p class="pindent">“The man’s a scourge,” said I, as we sped
back the way we had come. “He’ll make
Villach untenable.”</p>

<p class="pindent">Mansel shrugged his shoulders.</p>

<p class="pindent">“I think we must suffer him,” he said.
“He may be of use.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“ ‘Of use?’ ” said I.</p>

<p class="pindent">“Of use,” said Mansel.</p>

<p class="pindent">With that, he drove very fast to where
Adèle’s glove had been found, and set us all
to seeking some mark of a tire; “for here,”
he said, “I am certain that she changed from
one car to another and, while she did so,
contrived to drop her glove, for they would
have watched her too closely to let her throw
it out as she went.”</p>

<p class="pindent">In proof of this, he showed us where oil
had been dripping on the edge of the grass
by the road, as is sometimes the way of a car
which is standing still.</p>

<p class="pindent">“The relay was waiting,” said he, “half
on and half off the grass, close up to the hedge.
The other ran up alongside, and the transfer
was made. And now we’ll all work in a line,
searching the ground as they do on a dairy
farm.”</p>

<p class="pindent">We did so for more than an hour, but found
nothing.</p>

<p class="pindent">Then we took to the cars and drove very
slowly west, now travelling together, now
parting and presently meeting again, until
by evening we had come to a great hog’s back,
some fifty miles from the spot where the
glove had lain. There we rested and watched
the sun go down, and then Mansel led us to
Villach as fast as he could.</p>

<p class="pindent">There, more to my disgust than surprise,
we found that Rouse was to lodge in the very
same inn. Indeed, he announced his presence
by springing out like a child from behind the
parlour door, so that even Mansel was short
with him, while I could have taken the fool
and wrung his neck.</p>

<p class="pindent">I will not dwell upon his follies, the tale of
which was enough to make the angels weep,
but merely record that for the next three
days he continually invited violence, taking
the most curious interest in all we did,
pressing his company upon us whenever we
were at hand and openly trying to follow us
when we went forth.</p>

<p class="pindent">This we did every morning at break of day,
as best we could to search the country
towards the west, for, to that quarter, we
made sure, Adèle had been carried off.
Mansel, who alone could speak German,
visited the villages in turn, stopping at
wayside inns and engaging in conversation
men and women whose business kept them in
sight of the roads. George or Carson or I
went always with him. The others repaired
to the hog’s back, from which four men with
glasses could command a very great view: if
ever a car was sighted it was carefully watched,
and two would leave in pursuit, so soon as
the line it was taking could be fairly
presumed. But questionings and scrutinies
alike bore us no fruit, for Mansel learned
nothing of value, and the occupants of the
cars, which were few, gave us no cause to
doubt their honesty. Indeed, at the end of
three days, we seemed to be no nearer
Adèle than when we left Cleveland Row. In
that time, however, we received a savage
monition that, though we had no idea where
‘Rose’ Noble was, he had his hand upon us
and could, so to speak, twist our tail whenever
he pleased.</p>

<div><h1 id="chIII">CHAPTER III<br /><span style="font-size:smaller"> IN TOUCH</span></h1></div>

<p class="pindent">When we came in at nightfall, at the end of
our second patrol, Rouse was still abroad in his
car. For this relief we were thankful, for the
evening before he had sat with us during our
supper and, hungry though we were, had
gone far to spoil the meal. Our respite,
however, was short, for we had scarcely sat
down before we heard him arrive, and a
moment later he thrust his head into the room.</p>

<p class="pindent">“Guess who I’ve seen,” he said archly.</p>

<p class="pindent">No one vouchsafed any answer; but
Tester spoke for us all, by leaving his cushion
and passing beneath the bed.</p>

<p class="pindent">“Mr. Wilberforce,” said Rouse triumphantly.</p>

<p class="pindent">The name meant nothing to me, and a
glance at Mansel and Hanbury showed that
their case was the same.</p>

<p class="pindent">At length—</p>

<p class="pindent">“Who’s Wilberforce?” said Mansel
wearily.</p>

<p class="pindent">Rouse’s grin faded, and his eyes grew
round with surprise. Then he came into the
room.</p>

<p class="pindent">“He—he said he knew you,” he stammered.
“He said he knew you quite well. I met him
by the side of the road. He asked me the
way to Salzburg, and then we got talking
and, when I said you were at Villach, he
asked how you were.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“What was he like?” said Hanbury.</p>

<p class="pindent">Rouse described some man I had never
seen.</p>

<p class="pindent">“When was this?” said Mansel.</p>

<p class="pindent">Rouse said about six o’clock.</p>

<p class="pindent">“I think you must know him,” he added.
“He said that he lived near Bournemouth
and he asked all about you and how you were
getting on. I said you were out a great deal
and—There now, I’ve left them in the car.”</p>

<p class="pindent">As he turned to the door—</p>

<p class="pindent">“Left what in the car?” said I.</p>

<p class="pindent">“The flowers, of course, stupid,” said
Rouse. I could have choked, but Mansel
and Hanbury began to shake with laughter.
“I tell you he gave me some flowers. Carson
will you be so good? The box in the car.”</p>

<p class="pindent">With a resigned look, Carson left the room.</p>

<p class="pindent">“The man’s mad,” murmured Hanbury.</p>

<p class="pindent">“No, he isn’t,” said Rouse excitedly. “He
said you were a great gardener.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“He said I was?” said Mansel.</p>

<p class="pindent">“Oh, yes,” said Rouse. “I’ve no doubt
about it at all. We were talking of horticulture
and he said——”</p>

<p class="pindent">“You must have got the name wrong,” said
Mansel. “I know nothing of gardening.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“You must mean fishing,” said Hanbury.</p>

<p class="pindent">“No, it must have been gardening,” said
Rouse. “Why else should he give me the
flowers?”</p>

<p class="pindent">Here Carson appeared in the doorway, with
a shallow, white cardboard box, fastened
with string.</p>

<p class="pindent">“There you are,” said Rouse, handing the
box to Mansel, as though there were no more
to be said. “He asked me to give them to
you.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“I’m sure you’re mistaken,” said Mansel,
taking a knife. “I’m certainly fond of
flowers, but——”</p>

<p class="pindent">“He cut those himself,” said Rouse, “and
he said he could think of no one who
would value them more than you. James
Wilberforce, his name was, and, when I
asked——”</p>

<p class="pindent">“My God!” said Mansel, and Hanbury
and I cried out.</p>

<p class="pindent">The box was full of beautiful, soft, brown
hair.</p>

<p class="pindent">In an instant the room was in an uproar.</p>

<p class="pindent">As I leapt to my feet, my head struck the
electric light and put it out; but I saw
George throw himself forward, as Rouse
recoiled against the wall. There was a lamp
by the bed, and I sought like a madman for
the switch, while Tester was barking and
George and Rouse were shouting and Mansel
was calling George to order in a steady,
metallic voice.</p>

<p class="pindent">As the light went up——</p>

<p class="pindent">“It’s beyond a joke,” said Rouse, painfully
getting to his feet. “You might have
hurt me very much. Supposing——”</p>

<p class="pindent">“How did you come by that box?” said
Mansel.</p>

<p class="pindent">“I tell you,” said Rouse, “he told me to
give it to you. I understood they were flowers
and that you——”</p>

<p class="pindent">“You say he was going to Salzburg?”</p>

<p class="pindent">“I think so,” said Rouse, wincing.
“He——”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Please describe him again.”</p>

<p class="pindent">Rouse gave the particulars, staring.</p>

<p class="pindent">“And now describe his car.”</p>

<p class="pindent">When he had done so, Mansel stepped to
the door.</p>

<p class="pindent">“I’m sorry for what’s happened,” he said.
“The fault was not yours. And now please
go. We’ve plans to make and rather a lot
to discuss.”</p>

<p class="pindent">Without a word, Rouse turned and limped
from the room.</p>

<p class="pindent">For a little, none of us spoke.</p>

<p class="pindent">Then——</p>

<p class="pindent">“Do you believe him?” said Hanbury.</p>

<p class="pindent">“Why not?” said Mansel. “If the enemy
knows we’re here, you can bet he hasn’t
missed Rouse. And there you are. I said
Rouse might be of use, and I was right.
He’s just been of use to ‘Rose’ Noble.
Perhaps to-morrow he’ll be of use to us.”</p>

<hr class="tbk" />

<p class="pindent">My room and Mansel’s shared a small
balcony, and that night Tester waked me by
putting his nose on my arm. I was up in
an instant, for the dog was plainly uneasy
and I feared that something was wrong.
As I passed barefoot to the window, I saw
that the light was burning in Mansel’s
room. . . .</p>

<p class="pindent">Mansel was on his knees by the side of the
bed, with one arm across his eyes, like a
weeping child, and the other hand full of
the curls which lay in a little heap in the
midst of the counterpane.</p>

<p class="pindent">For a long time he never moved, but at
last he lifted his head and, when the dog
came running, he picked him up in his
arms.</p>

<p class="pindent">I stole back to bed.</p>

<hr class="tbk" />

<p class="pindent">The next day was Sunday.</p>

<p class="pindent">Mansel started for Salzburg at seven
o’clock, taking Carson with him, and the
rest of us left for the hog’s back within the
hour.</p>

<p class="pindent">I ran into Rouse on the doorstep, as I was
leaving the inn.</p>

<p class="pindent">“I must beg your pardon,” he said, “for
the way I spoke last night. It was very
wrong of me. And I feel you were most
justly provoked.” He laughed inanely. “I
was very disappointed myself. But I do
hope Captain Mansel won’t take it up with
Mr. Wilberforce. After all, we’re all liable
to make mistakes, and I’m sure he had no
intention of playing a joke.”</p>

<p class="pindent">At first I could make no reply.</p>

<p class="pindent">At length——</p>

<p class="pindent">“That’s all right,” I said. “I’m afraid
we were rather—rather hasty. Supper’s a
bad time, you know.”</p>

<p class="pindent">With that, I rushed off, before he could
clasp my hand.</p>

<p class="pindent">When I told Hanbury——</p>

<p class="pindent">“The man’s half-witted,” he said. “And
I’m ashamed of myself for bringing him
down. I don’t wonder ‘Rose’ Noble hangs
his hat on him. I think we should soon
find Adèle, if <span class="it">he</span> had a comic idiot round his
neck.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Yet Mansel has hopes of him,” said I.</p>

<p class="pindent">“As a hat-stand,” said George. “That’s
all.”</p>

<p class="pindent">Not until ten that night did Mansel return
to the inn.</p>

<p class="pindent">We had come in at sundown, and Rouse
had badgered us nearly out of our lives, for,
remembering our offences of the night before,
we felt constrained to be civil, and the fact
that the day was Sunday seemed to entitle
his cloth to consideration. Before retiring,
he asked if he might read us the Gospel.
We could hardly refuse, but I fear it did us
no good and only enlarged the sympathy
we felt for his flock.</p>

<p class="pindent">Very soon after, we heard the sigh of the
Rolls, and a moment later Mansel entered
the room.</p>

<p class="pindent">“Gone to bed?” he said, looking round.</p>

<p class="pindent">“Ten minutes ago,” said I, “by the grace
of God.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Then you’re friends again,” said Mansel.</p>

<p class="pindent">I told him how Rouse had spoken on the
steps of the inn and what we had suffered
since sundown at the hands of the fool.</p>

<p class="pindent">“Good,” said he. “Any news?”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Devil a bit,” said I. “And you?”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Salzburg’s no earthly,” says he.
“Indeed, I was so sure of that that I’ve
been at Poganec all day.” We opened our
eyes. “But don’t tell Hannibal R.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“He never dreamed you’d gone to Salzburg.
If he had——”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Oh, yes, he did,” said Mansel, sitting
down in a chair. “But he knew I should
waste my time. I tell you, he’s pretty hot
stuff, is Hannibal R. And you must admit
he’s put up a wonderful show. Talk about
sheep’s clothing.”</p>

<p class="pindent">Hanbury was looking at me in a helpless
way, and I fancy he found slight comfort in
my expression, for he soon returned to Mansel,
and I did the same.</p>

<p class="pindent">“Last night,” said Mansel, “you asked me
if I believed him. The true answer was
‘No’; and the whole truth, ‘I never did.’</p>

<p class="pindent">“And now listen.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“The moment I saw him, I felt sure that
he was our man. He was where I had
expected to find him, and he couldn’t escape,
because he had a flat tire. Yet in the first
five minutes he played the fool so beautifully
that <span class="it">against my better judgment</span> I found my
suspicions failing and I had to fight with
myself to keep them alive. And then he
made a mistake. It was a very slight one,
and I don’t think he thought I saw. He
did a thing that no clergyman that wears
a round collar would ever do. He put
up two hands, as though to straighten a
tie.”</p>

<p class="pindent">He paused there, to pour himself some ale:
and, when he had drunk, he lighted a
cigarette.</p>

<p class="pindent">“Well,” he continued, “the obvious thing
to do was to play his game—satisfy him that
we didn’t suspect him at all. And that’s
why I didn’t tell you. Your undisguised
contempt for him has been simply invaluable.
I should think he’s been revelling in it—I
know I have. By the way, I’m telling you
now, because you won’t see him again—at
least, not upon the same terms.</p>

<p class="pindent">“Now, first, what was his job? His job
was to keep in touch. ‘Rose’ Noble holds
a fine hand, but he knows us too well to sleep
sound when we’re out of his ken. So Rouse
was to keep in touch—an extremely difficult,
job. We were six to one, you see, and ready
to find a spy under every hat. So what does
he do but step in <span class="it">under our guard</span>? It was
done in the War, you know: but only a
born artist can bring it off. And Rouse is
an old master.</p>

<p class="pindent">“And now for his value to us. It may
become imperative that a spy should return
to his chief. Very well. If Rouse thought
we suspected him, he’d never return, until
he had shaken us off. Never. But, <span class="it">now that
he knows we don’t</span>, he’ll go when he thinks
he’d better and never take the trouble to
look behind. <span class="it">And I think he’ll think he’d
better before very long, for he’ll have some
news for ‘Rose’ Noble which will not wait.</span></p>

<p class="pindent">“And now, if you please, we shall all go
to bed at once, for I’ve no idea when or where
we shall sleep again.”</p>

<hr class="tbk" />

<p class="pindent">I had slept very ill for three hours when I
heard a car making like fury towards the
inn. At once I sat up, for, in view of what
Mansel had said, I fully expected that it
was bound for our door; but it swept up
the street, like a squall, and presently
turning some corner, passed out of earshot.</p>

<p class="pindent">A moment later, however, I heard it coming
again.</p>

<p class="pindent">Again it went by the inn, but stopped,
with its brakes screaming, a score of paces
away. Then the reverse gear was engaged,
and the car shot back with a snarl, to
come to rest under our windows, before
the inn.</p>

<p class="pindent">The next instant someone was pounding
upon the front door.</p>

<p class="pindent">As I rushed to the window—</p>

<p class="pindent">“What is it, Berry?” said Mansel, from
the balcony.</p>

<p class="pindent">Major Pleydell stepped back on the pavement
and threw up his head.</p>

<p class="pindent">“<span class="it">Jonah</span>,” he cried, “<span class="it">she’s sent word. She’s
got a message through</span>.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“I’ll come down,” said Mansel.</p>

<p class="pindent">But George and I were before him and had
the front door open, while he was still on the
stairs.</p>

<p class="pindent">For a moment the cousins spoke together:
then Mansel turned to us.</p>

<p class="pindent">“The man’s at Poganec,” he said. “We
must go there at once.”</p>

<p class="pindent">For all our haste, Mansel was ready before
us, and I heard him call Carson and tell him
to follow with Rowley and that Bell was to
pack our light luggage and load the second
Rolls.</p>

<p class="pindent">Two minutes later we left in Major Pleydell’s
car: Mansel was driving, while the
chauffeur sat by his side.</p>

<p class="pindent">We did not go to Poganec, but, instead,
twenty miles to Crayern—the first station
after Villach, if you are travelling east.</p>

<p class="pindent">Arrived there, Mansel descended, and,
wondering what was to happen, we followed
him out of the car.</p>

<p class="pindent">To our surprise, he bade Major Pleydell
“Good-bye.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“And thanks very much,” he said. “You
did it most awfully well.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“I wish it had been true,” said his
cousin.</p>

<p class="pindent">“So do I,” said Mansel. “So long.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Good night, you two,” said the other.
George and I cried “Good night.”</p>

<p class="pindent">Then the car slipped into the darkness and
Mansel turned to us.</p>

<p class="pindent">“You must forgive me,” he said. “I’ll
never blind you again. And now let’s walk
to the station, and talk as we go along.</p>

<p class="pindent">“Rouse’s room’s above mine. I’m sure
the car must have waked him, and I’m sure
he heard what was said. <span class="it">She’s got a message
through.</span> And that’s the ‘news for ‘Rose’
Noble which will not wait.’</p>

<p class="pindent">“Very well. What will Rouse do? He’ll
clear out at once. Well, that’s all right, but
I don’t think his car will start. He’ll try to
locate the trouble, and so will Bell—they’re
probably sweating blood now—but they’ll
only waste their time. And so Brother
Rouse will have to take to the train. I
think it more than likely that Bell will drive
him to the station, for an Innsbruck train
leaves Villach at a quarter to three. The
same train leaves Crayern at a quarter past
two, that is to say, in exactly ten minutes’
time. So, if we’re quick and that’s the
station ahead, we four shall travel together
as far as Rouse wants to go.</p>

<p class="pindent">“Now it’s all very well to make plans for
somebody else. I think Rouse will start
right away and I think he will take this
train. But Rowley will be on the platform
to see if he does. If he doesn’t, look out for
a flash from Rowley’s torch. If, as the train
moves out, we see a flash, we leave the train
at the next station: and there we shall find
Carson waiting to bring us home. If we
don’t get out, he’ll follow the train along,
calling at every station until he finds one of
us waiting to pick him up.</p>

<p class="pindent">“Well, there you are. I’ve set my trap
and I’ve tried to look ahead. I’d have given
a very great deal to have your counsel, but
I dared not tell you that Rouse was ‘Rose’
Noble’s man.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Thank God you didn’t,” said Hanbury.
“I couldn’t have played the hand to save
my life.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“I covet his nerve,” said I.</p>

<p class="pindent">“You may well do that,” said Mansel.
“Look at that—those flowers. Of course
it made you suspect him, but he had
you back in your place by eight the next
day.”</p>

<p class="pindent">By now we had come to the station, and
ten minutes later we had our tickets for
Innsbruck and were aboard the train.</p>

<p class="pindent">As luck would have it, there was a sleeping
car; and, as this was nearly empty, we were
able to buy a compartment which held three
beds. Comfort apart, this would save us no
end of trouble, for now we could lock ourselves
in and put out the light. To insure against
interference, we told the attendant to make
our beds at once and on no account to disturb
us till Innsbruck was reached.</p>

<p class="pindent">He was a talkative fellow and proud of
what English he had, and I was soon in a
fever lest we should come to Villach before
the beds were made: indeed, as the minutes
went by, I could hardly sit still, but at last
he had set all to his liking and wished us
good night.</p>

<p class="pindent">Two minutes later the train began to slow
down.</p>

<p class="pindent">“Draw the blinds,” said Mansel, “because
of the station lamps.”</p>

<p class="pindent">When we had done so, he took his stand
by the window and Hanbury put out the
light.</p>

<p class="pindent">As the train drew into the station, we stood
as still as death, and to this day I remember
every sound.</p>

<p class="pindent">From the resonance of all noise, I judged
the station empty, except for those on duty
and a handful of freight. There was no
haste or clamour, and, if passengers came or
went, they gave no sign. After a little, a
gong clanged five or six times, and a moment
later somebody slammed a door. Then the
guard, I suppose, wound a horn, the engine
whistled in answer and the train began to
move.</p>

<p class="pindent">As Mansel was lifting the blind——</p>

<p class="pindent">“I must be alone,” said Rouse.</p>

<p class="pindent">I think we all started.</p>

<p class="pindent">“Orright, orright,” said the attendant.</p>

<p class="pindent">The voices came from the corridor outside
our door.</p>

<p class="pindent">Mansel stood like a statue, with the blind
half raised in his hand.</p>

<p class="pindent">“Well, get a move on,” said Rouse.
“I’m pretty tired. <span class="it">What time do we get to
Lass?</span>”</p>

<p class="pindent">Then the two passed on down the passage,
and we could hear no more.</p>

<p class="pindent">It was safe enough now to move and to
switch on the light: yet we did neither, but
continued to stand breathless, each of us
busy with his thoughts.</p>

<p class="pindent">For those of Hanbury and Mansel I cannot
answer, but I know that I was thinking
neither of what was before us nor of the
secret which Mansel had so brilliantly won.
I was thinking how the tone of a man’s voice
may show the colour of his heart: for the
voice was Rouse’s voice, but the tone was
that of a harsh and evil man.</p>

<p class="pindent">At length Mansel let the blind go and
asked me to switch on the light.</p>

<p class="pindent">A short study of the map suggested that
we should reach Lass not later than six
o’clock. The place lay fifty miles from
Innsbruck and was either a fair-sized village
or a very small town. The country about
was highly mountainous.</p>

<p class="pindent">It was then arranged that each should
watch for one hour, while the others slept.
I was to take the first watch, and Mansel
the last; “although,” said he, “I think that
may be a short one, for, before we get to
Lass we must settle one or two things. Still,
I shall begin to get pensive at five o’clock,
and so, if you two don’t mind, I’ll sleep till
then.”</p>

<p class="pindent">Then the light was put out, and he and
George lay down, whilst I sat still by the
window, to watch the landscape go by, very
fair and peaceful and, under the rule of the
moonlight, like an enchanted land.</p>

<hr class="tbk" />

<p class="pindent">When Mansel waked us, I found to my
surprise that it was half past six, but it seemed
that at some small station we had waited
nearly an hour, because of some disorder a
few miles ahead.</p>

<p class="pindent">“Which is all to the good,” said Mansel,
“for now, when we get to Lass, there will be
more people about and we ought to be able
to follow without being seen.”</p>

<p class="pindent">Then he arranged that, until Rouse was
off the platform, we should not leave the
train, and that, once outside the station, we
should immediately disperse: we were then
to ignore one another and each in his own
way contrive to keep Rouse in view. I was
not to follow for more than a quarter of a
mile, but was then to return to the station
and wait for Carson to come.</p>

<p class="pindent">Rough as were these proposals, I believe
they would have wholly succeeded, had not
Fortune served us a very ill turn: for Rouse
left the train as casually as though he travelled
to Lass every day of his life and made his
way out of the station without, so far as I
saw, once looking behind.</p>

<p class="pindent">He paused outside for a moment, to light
a cigarette, and then started down the short
road which served the station alone. The
road was planted with lime trees six paces
apart, and, as he walked down the middle,
we had but to keep to the path to be out of
his view. Mansel and I took the left path,
and Hanbury the right.</p>

<p class="pindent">All of a sudden, Mansel who was leading,
stopped dead.</p>

<p class="pindent">I instantly looked at Rouse, still sauntering
carelessly on, with his head in the air, <span class="it">as yet
completely unconscious of the two Rolls stealing
towards him, perhaps fifty paces away</span>.</p>

<p class="pindent">In a flash I knew what had happened.</p>

<p class="pindent">The delay on the line had put a spoke in
our wheel, and Carson, with Bell behind him,
had caught up the train.</p>

<p class="pindent">Even as I looked, my gentleman saw the
two cars.</p>

<p class="pindent">For an instant he faltered. Then he
glanced over his shoulder and walked straight
on.</p>

<p class="pindent">As they approached, he spread out
ridiculous arms, and, when Carson stopped,
he stepped abreast of the car and engaged
him in talk, laughing and stamping and
stooping and slapping his thighs, as though
he found the encounter a matter of infinite
jest, and completely ignoring the approach
of a small motor bus. This had met our
train, in the hope, I suppose, of custom for
some hotel, and, the hope proving vain, was
at last going empty away.</p>

<p class="pindent">Of the little road the Rolls took more
than its share, and, since Rouse with his
antics occupied all that was left, the bus
could not have gone by without running him
down. This it very nearly did, for its driver
did not seem to believe that the man would
not budge: but, in spite of all manner of
warnings, Rouse held his ground to the last,
so that the driver was forced to clap on his
brakes and actually lock his wheels to let
the other get clear. Some argument followed,
and this seemed natural enough; but, before
it was over, Rouse took his seat by the
driver and under the eyes of us all was rapidly
driven away.</p>

<p class="pindent">Maybe we were fools, but the thing was
cleverly done.</p>

<p class="pindent">The cars were facing the station and were
far too long to be at all quickly turned: the
town lay five hundred yards distant, and no
other car was in sight.</p>

<p class="pindent">Too late Rowley leapt from his seat and
flung up the road, in a vain endeavour to
mount the bus from behind: too late Carson
spurted for the station, to turn in the yard:
only, as the bus disappeared, a figure flashed
out of the lime trees and into its dust. This
was Hanbury: and, since Rouse could not
have known that he was behind, I think we
all had some hope that he might be able by
his speed to pull the unfortunate business out
of the fire.</p>

<p class="pindent">I do not mean to submit that we had cause
for complaint. If Adèle was not lying at
Lass, she was in the neighbourhood: our
quest, from being desperate, had become full
of promise; and we had passed, so to speak,
at one stride into the running. Yet, but for
the train’s delay, we might well have been
led clean up to the prison gates and, taking
‘Rose’ Noble unawares, have had his prisoner
out <span class="it">before he knew we were there</span>. And there
was the rub. To have lost Rouse was
tiresome: to have shown him that we were
at Lass, and that in full force, was nothing
less than a disaster. There is an old saying
that a miss is as good as a mile; but, unless
we could overtake Rouse <span class="it">without his knowledge</span>,
we were like to lose half the ground we had
been at such pains to win.</p>

<p class="pindent">Such thoughts and the like slid into and
out of my mind, as the cars went about in
the yard and, waiting a favourable moment,
I boarded the second and took my seat by
Bell.</p>

<p class="pindent">Only pausing to take up Rowley, we tore
after Mansel and Carson, now well under
way.</p>

<p class="pindent">Had the town lain further away, we must
have come up with the bus, but the road
this had taken was crooked and after a quarter
of a mile ran into the streets. These were
as narrow and faithless as any I know, for
almost at once Carson was in a blind alley,
and, though I saw his mistake in time to
save Bell, the way we took brought us into
a miniature market and left us there to get
out as best we could.</p>

<p class="pindent">At once I jumped out of the car and,
calling to Bell to follow, began to run back.
A passage presenting itself, I took this at
once, in the hope of striking that quarter
which we had failed to find, but, though it
led into a street, I had to turn right or left,
whereas, to my way of thinking, I needed
to hold straight on. I ran to the right and
turned up the first street I saw, but this
curled round in a hoop, and, as soon as I had
the chance, I turned again.</p>

<p class="pindent">It follows that within five minutes I knew
neither where I was nor how I had come,
and, since I could speak no German, I had
no means of obtaining any direction. Bell
I must have outrun, for he was not to be seen.</p>

<p class="pindent">Now why I called Bell to follow, instead of
Rowley, I never can tell: it was against all
reason, for Bell could handle the Rolls, but
Rowley could not, and we had left the car
so blocking the jaws of the market that
nothing could come or go. It was, indeed,
so unnatural a mistake to have made that
I have often wondered whether Providence
itself did not put his name into my mouth,
for, had I called Rowley instead, we should
have lost a chance which would not have
come again.</p>

<p class="pindent">I had walked for another five minutes,
without result, and was standing at a corner,
where a very ancient fountain was playing
behind a grill, wondering which way to take
and thinking how childish it was to be lost
in a town the size of St. James’s Park, when
a soft, green fig fell suddenly down at my
feet. I at once looked up and around, to see
Hanbury’s face at a window and Bell’s behind.</p>

<p class="pindent">As our eyes met, George beckoned to me to
come up, but, before I could give any sign,
they had disappeared.</p>

<p class="pindent">The window at which I had seen them was
that of a handsome oriel, serving a fine, old
house, which must once, I think, have lodged
persons of high degree, for a coat of arms had
been cut above the doorway and each of the
oriel’s corbels was charged with some device.
The floor below was now used as a bookseller’s
shop, and little but the doorway remained
to show what it had been.</p>

<p class="pindent">I immediately crossed the street and
entered the shop, when an old man at once
came forward and, using very fair English,
inquired of what service he could be. Before
I could answer, Bell came from behind a
bookcase and said that I was a friend, whereupon
I was ushered upstairs without a word.</p>

<p class="pindent">A moment later we entered a handsome
room, more than half of which was loaded
with books, while the hither or oriel end was
curtained off and made an agreeable parlour,
full of light.</p>

<p class="pindent">George was sitting on a table, gazing out
of the window from which he had beckoned
me up: this was commanding a close, at
the corner of which played the fountain by
which I had stood.</p>

<p class="pindent">“Bill,” said George, “where’s Mansel?”</p>

<p class="pindent">“God knows,” said I. “Where’s Rouse?”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Down in that close,” said George. “He
went into one of those houses, but I’ve no
idea which.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“How on earth did you do it?” said I,
clapping him on the back.</p>

<p class="pindent">“I don’t know,” said George. “I couldn’t
stand up when I got here, but just fell down
in the shop. The old fellow was quite upset.
By the grace of God he speaks English, and,
when I could breathe, I pointed to <span class="it">Alison’s
Europe</span> and asked him how much it was. He
said ‘Two pounds—English money.’ So I
said I’d give him five if he’d let me sit up in
this window as long as I pleased. He threw
the figs in, but don’t touch them—they’re
the only munitions I’ve got. And not everyone
stands by that fountain: I had to throw
three at Bell. And now what’s to be done?
I know how to hurry, but I look to you for
the brains.”</p>

<p class="pindent">Standing well back from the window, I
stared at the close.</p>

<p class="pindent">How many houses there were I could not
tell, for they were irregularly built and several
were overhung: but the close was shallow—a
bare fifty paces in depth, with a heavily
timbered mansion blocking the farther end.
The place was plainly most aged and would
have been a feature of any city I know, but
Lass was so old and curious and had been so
little touched that the close was no more
than in keeping with the rest of the town.</p>

<p class="pindent">“I think one thing is certain,” said I,
“that Adèle is not in this town: it’s much
too busy for ‘Rose’ Noble. Rouse has gone
to ground in some house of call—some
lodging or other they’ve taken down in that
close. And, unless there’s a back way out,
I don’t think he’ll leave before dark. If I
am right and the house is a meeting-place,
there’s no reason why he should, for he can
send word to ‘Rose’ Noble by someone
we’ve never seen.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“That’s encouraging,” said Hanbury. “Not
that it seems a very popular walk: only five
people have used it since I’ve been here.
But it’s early yet and—well, there’s a man
coming now. He doesn’t look very likely,
but then they never do.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“I don’t see what we can do,” said I,
“until we know which is the house. You
can’t run after a man just because he comes
out of that close. It’s suspicious, of course,
but we’re only six, all told, and, until we’ve
got more to go on——”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Sir,” said Bell, “that’s the man. <span class="it">He
was on the quay at Dieppe.</span>”</p>

<div><h1 id="chIV">CHAPTER IV<br /><span style="font-size:smaller"> THE CASTLE OF GATH</span></h1></div>

<p class="pindent">There was no time to make any plan.</p>

<p class="pindent">The man was walking fast, and, as I have
shown, Lass was no better than a maze.</p>

<p class="pindent">With one consent, the three of us rushed
to the door, and, while Hanbury was speaking
the bookseller, Bell and I stepped directly
into the street.</p>

<p class="pindent">Mercifully a cart was standing not six feet
away, and as we darted behind it, I saw that
we had before us the very deuce of a task.
The man was, of course, on his guard and
knew us by sight: the hour was early, and,
though the shops were open—because, I
suppose, it was Market day—there were not
twenty people in view: yet, had the street
been crowded, our dress was fatally distinctive
and had only to be seen to betray us and our
design.</p>

<p class="pindent">In a flash I had my coat off and had flung
it into the cart. I pitched my hat after it,
rolled my sleeves to the elbow and, seizing
a sack of refuse, which was standing open-mouthed
on the kerb, swung this on to my
shoulder and started, bent double, down the
street. I know the disguise was feeble, but I
dared wait no more; and that was as well,
for, before I had taken five steps, the man
glanced over his shoulder and turned to the
left.</p>

<p class="pindent">We had now a stroke of good fortune,
without which I cannot believe that we should
have got very far, for it gave us a breathing-space
and let me fall back a little and Hanbury
and Bell come up.</p>

<p class="pindent">I had hardly come to the corner, when I saw
the fellow enter a tobacconist’s shop.</p>

<p class="pindent">At once I turned to see Hanbury close
behind. He was wearing a black overcoat,
green with age, and the bookseller’s hat,
which came down over his ears. In his
hands was a newspaper, open as though to
be read.</p>

<p class="pindent">“Watch the tobacconist’s,” I said, and
dashed between two houses to tear off my
collar and tie.</p>

<p class="pindent">As I returned a man passed, wheeling a
bicycle. His form seemed familiar, and,
when I looked at him again, I saw that it was
Bell. He had no coat, hat or collar; his
trousers were clipped at the ankle and seemed
to be falling down; his face and hands were
filthy beyond compare. He glanced down the
street on his left, and, there, I suppose,
seeing Hanbury, picked up his cue and
turned.</p>

<p class="pindent">As I came again to the corner, our man came
out of his shop. For a moment he looked
about, him, but seeing, I imagine, nothing at
all suspicious, presently turned on his heel
and went his way.</p>

<p class="pindent">He was a tall, loose-limbed fellow, with a
pasty face: he walked as though he liked the
look of himself and wore his hat cocked on
one side: and, since I presently learned that
he was called ‘Casemate,’ from now on I
will speak of him by name.</p>

<p class="pindent">I was slouching along behind him, still
shouldering my sack, very conscious of my
respectability and full of admiration for Bell,
when I saw a crowd gathered ahead, where
the street bellied into a place in front of a
church. This seemed to interest Casemate,
for all his haste, for I saw him peering to
see what the matter might be; but, when he
was nearer, he suddenly turned away and
passed by on the opposite pavement, with
his eyes on the ground.</p>

<p class="pindent">I was wondering at his behaviour, when
the crowd began to move and then fall away
Then I saw a familiar bonnet and Mansel,
with Rowley beside him, driving a Rolls.
Behind came Carson.</p>

<p class="pindent">Now such a meeting was more than I could
have hoped for, for I had been racking my
brain for some way in which to find Mansel
and tell him what was afoot. Yet, though
we were so happily met, I dared make no
sign, for Casemate had his chin on his
shoulder, and I could not have caught Mansel’s
eye without catching his.</p>

<p class="pindent">Going as slowly as I dared, with the tail of
my eye I watched the car draw abreast; but
the crowd was about her wings, and Mansel
never looked up. I could have stamped for
vexation, for Hanbury was shuffling upon
the far side of the street, and Bell was already
by. Then Carson cried out a warning and
I heard a clatter and crash. Bell had
wheeled his bicycle into the second car.</p>

<p class="pindent">As he picked himself up, I heard Mansel
asking for news.</p>

<p class="pindent">“It’s all right, sir,” said Carson: “a
cyclist—” Bell gave him a malignant look—“a
cyclist walked into the car. And,
excuse me, sir, but you’re rather down on
the right. <span class="it">I think you must have broken a
spring.</span>”</p>

<p class="pindent">That was as much as I heard and all that
I wanted to know, for, if, when upon the road,
one of us wished to say something which was
not for everyone’s ears, he had but to state
that the car before or behind him had broken
a spring; such a statement would naturally
call for investigation, and, while this was
being conducted, the communication could
be easily made.</p>

<p class="pindent">Now all this was well enough, but, when I
returned to Casemate, I saw that he had
stopped and was standing under an archway,
with his eyes on the two cars and a hand to
his mouth.</p>

<p class="pindent">For a moment my brain faltered. I dared
not dally, and the last thing I wanted to do
was to overtake the man. He had but to
dwell upon my clothes to find them strange,
and to walk with his eyes upon my back
would be the way of a fool. Then I saw a
garage before me and, without so much as
blinking, I plodded in.</p>

<p class="pindent">An engine was running, and two mechanics
were busy about its head. As I came in, one
lighted a cigarette and pitched the match
still flaming, on to the floor. There must
have been petrol there, for flames leapt up.
As the fellow stood staring, I shot my sack
of refuse on to the fire, and a moment later
the three of us stamped it out.</p>

<p class="pindent">Both seemed very grateful and clapped
me upon the back. This goodwill was just
what I wanted, and after an age of dumbshow,
the taller of the two took off his dirty overalls
and helped me to put them on. I gave him
far more than they were worth and I think
this satisfied them that I was in fear of the
police: and, when I plunged my hands into
a tray of old oil, wiped them upon my sleeves
and smeared these across my face, I am sure
they no longer doubted that a warrant was
out for my arrest. Still, with my sack of
refuse, I had done them a very good turn,
and, though they looked none too easy, they
shook me by the hand when I went and gave
me a cigarette.</p>

<p class="pindent">At first I could not see Casemate. Then
I saw him striding along fifty yards off. He
was just passing Bell, who was pumping up
one of his tires, and Hanbury was shuffling
along twenty paces behind. Mansel and the
two cars were gone.</p>

<p class="pindent">I was now much easier in my mind and
followed with confidence, for my greasy suit
had given me a new lease of life, and the
thought that Mansel was soon to be in the
background did my heart good.</p>

<p class="pindent">Casemate went down to a river and over
an arched, stone bridge. This was in the
midst of the town, and here for the first time
I was able to see about me and to mark the
lie of the land.</p>

<p class="pindent">Lass lay in a trough of the mountains, the
wooded slopes of which pressed close upon
every side: the approaches to the town were
hidden, and even the railway line was not to
be seen. I have known villages so bound,
but never another town, and the dignity of
spires and gables so landlocked was very
pleasing. Yet, as I have said, I was sure
that Adèle was not here, and, when Casemate
soon took a way which ran out of the town,
to curl out of sight between two beetling
woods, I was not at all surprised.</p>

<p class="pindent">That here, however, we three must make
ourselves scarce was obvious enough, for, if
the streets had been idle, except for a labouring
waggon the road to come was bare. And,
while I was thinking how we should bring
this about, the thing was done.</p>

<p class="pindent">Bell mounted his bicycle, slowly overtook
Casemate and passed out of sight: Hanbury
turned up a passage which seemed to lead to
the woods: and I was left. As plainly as
though they had spoken, they meant me to
bring up the rear.</p>

<p class="pindent">The manœuvre was sound and perfectly
carried out: I was filled with admiration for
Hanbury and Bell: but the burden of
Casemate’s suspicion was now thrown full
upon me, and I was by no means certain
that I could carry the weight. I had no
cover: mechanics are seldom seen tramping
a country road: no man or beast seemed to
be going our way.</p>

<p class="pindent">I continued to walk on slowly, watching
Casemate approach the bend and racking my
brain. As he turned, he hung on his heel, and
after a long look behind him, passed out of
view.</p>

<p class="pindent">My fears now came to a head, and I dared
not go on. I was sure the fellow was waiting
for me to come up. Yet I dared not stop
without reason, nor, without reason, disappear.
Then I saw a café beside me, with a table
outside its door. . . .</p>

<p class="pindent">As they brought me wine and cigarettes,
I saw Casemate’s head appear round the bend
of the road.</p>

<p class="pindent">How long he watched me I do not know,
for I dared not look again at the bend until
I had drunk my wine: but, when at last I
threw it a careless glance, he was out of
sight.</p>

<p class="pindent">At once I left the café and took to the
road.</p>

<p class="pindent">Ten minutes went by before I saw Casemate
again, for the way was a natural pass and
humoured every whim of the mountains,
rising and falling and twisting as these decreed.
Indeed, I was afraid I had lost him and was
on the point of breaking into a run, when I
rounded a corner to see him ten paces away.
I drew back at once out of sight, but the
encounter shocked me, for it showed how
unfitted I was for such an exercise.</p>

<p class="pindent">But worse was to come.</p>

<p class="pindent">I had gone, I suppose, a mile in fear and
trembling, and the road had begun to rise in
a steady climb, when I peered round a bend,
to see Casemate <span class="it">retracing his steps</span>.</p>

<p class="pindent">Now I had just covered a fairly long,
straight reach of road, and, before I could
have retreated, he would have had me in
view. This was plainly the reason why he
had gone about, for, if he was being followed,
here was the very place to discover his
man.</p>

<p class="pindent">Frantically I looked round for cover, but
there was none at all. On one hand an open
meadow fell down abruptly to the level the
road had left: on the other a high bank of
earth rose into a crumbling cornice that
overhung the way. Only an oak leaned out
of the earthy wall and was thrusting a branch
like a roof-tree over the road.</p>

<p class="pindent">I am a tall man, but heavy, and to this
day I cannot tell how I managed to leap so
high: but, if I am heavy, I was desperate,
and, as I have found before, desperation is a
remarkable goad.</p>

<p class="pindent">Be that as it may, in an instant I had
hold of the bough and a moment later was
astride it, looking down upon the ground. I
then fell forward and cautiously raised my
feet, till I was lying along it and, though there
was little foliage, pretty well hid. The branch
was massive and rigid as any rock.</p>

<p class="pindent">Casemate rounded the corner and passed
below where I hung. Finding the road
deserted, he stopped in his tracks and, after
a long look, turned on his heel and began to
walk back up the hill, whistling some air as
he went. He paused for a moment beneath
me, to take out a cigarette, and, as he did so,
we both heard the sound of the horn of an
oncoming car.</p>

<p class="pindent">Now this meant nothing to me, for the
horn was that of some car which was going to
Lass, but Casemate stiffened like a pointer
and stood with his ears pricked and a match
in one of his hands and its box in the other.
Indeed, so concerned was his demeanour,
that I expected him every instant to take
to his heels, though why he should fear some
car which could hardly be one of ours I could
not think.</p>

<p class="pindent">The horn was not sounded again, but soon
we heard a car coming at a high enough
speed.</p>

<p class="pindent">Casemate immediately whipped to the side
of the road, and, taking his stand by the
bend, peered anxiously round. The next
moment he was out in the fairway, spreading
and waving his arms as a signal to stop.</p>

<p class="pindent">I heard the brakes clapped on, but the car
was round the corner before it had come to
rest.</p>

<p class="pindent">Casemate came running back, and somebody
put out a head.</p>

<p class="pindent">“What is it?” said ‘Rose’ Noble.</p>

<hr class="tbk" />

<p class="pindent">I was so much dumbfounded that I nearly
fell down from the bough, and then I saw
that the luck I had found so unkind a moment
ago was playing clean into our hands.</p>

<p class="pindent">“Somebody’s talking,” said Casemate.
“She’s got word through to mother, and
Big Willie’s at Lass.”</p>

<p class="pindent">There was a moment’s silence.</p>

<p class="pindent">Then——</p>

<p class="pindent">“How d’you know?” said ‘Rose’
Noble.</p>

<p class="pindent">“Jute,” said Casemate. “Last night they
came for Big Willie and told him that she
had made touch. Jute heard them say so.
Big Willie was off like a cracker, and, when he
was good and gone, Jute slipped up to the
station and took the train.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“<span class="it">And led him to Lass</span>,” said ‘Rose’ Noble.
“Go on.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“B—but——”</p>

<p class="pindent">“<span class="it">Go on.</span>”</p>

<p class="pindent">“He’s there,” said Casemate doggedly.
“I’ve seen him. Stuck up in the streets,
with a Punch-and-Judy crowd round both
of his cars.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Where’s Jute?”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Lying low in the lodge.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Thought he’d done enough harm, I
suppose?”</p>

<p class="pindent">“He didn’t bring him,” said Casemate.
“Big Willie’s——”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Of course he brought him,” roared
‘Rose’ Noble, bursting out of the car.
“You snake-faced idiot, what do you take
me for? ‘Got word through to mother.’
This isn’t Marlborough Street.” He slammed
the door with a fury that shook the
car. “By ——,” he added, using a dreadful
oath, “wait till I get at Jute. I told
him they’d try to bounce him and I made
him swear never to move when Big Willie
was out of sight. <span class="it">Never.</span> Why did he come
by train?”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Car wouldn’t start,” said Casemate.</p>

<p class="pindent">“And <span class="it">that</span> never showed him?” raged
‘Rose’ Noble.</p>

<p class="pindent">Casemate essayed no answer, but only
stared upon the ground, plainly resenting
a trouncing which Jute had won,
yet sullenly conscious that, by adopting
Jute’s reading, he had put himself out of
court.</p>

<p class="pindent">‘Rose’ Noble ripped off his hat and
mopped his face.</p>

<p class="pindent">“Who was with Big Willie?” he
demanded.</p>

<p class="pindent">“Two of the servants,” said Casemate.</p>

<p class="pindent">For a moment ‘Rose’ Noble stood still,
with his head in the air. Then he lowered
his eyes and looked at Casemate.</p>

<p class="pindent">I suppose there was that in his gaze which
shocked the other, for he shrank back
against the wall, protesting the truth of his
words.</p>

<p class="pindent">“Quite right,” purred ‘Rose’ Noble,
“quite right. You only saw two of the
servants. <span class="it">I passed the third on the road five
minutes ago.</span>”</p>

<p class="pindent">A moment later the car was being turned
round.</p>

<p class="pindent">I think this short colloquy must show how
fine and swift a brain our principal enemy
had. No matter how clogged, he had the
truth free in an instant, and, though, when
he passed him, he had not recognized Bell—and
for that he can hardly be blamed, for he
had seen him but once—the moment he
learned that one servant was not with Mansel,
he knew why the dirty cyclist was taking his
subordinate’s road. That he made no mention
at all of Hanbury or me, was, I confess,
a considerable blow to my pride, but I
fear he credited us with little cunning, but
only a blunt pugnacity when it came to a
fight.</p>

<p class="pindent">Now whether this stung into action my
mother wit I cannot say, but I know that,
as he and Casemate entered the car, I saw
at my feet a chance which never would
come again.</p>

<p class="pindent">The car was closed, and its canopy was
fixed: the road was narrow, and, in his
endeavours to turn, the driver was bringing
his charge directly below where I hung. For
me to alight on its roof was the easiest thing
in the world, and, once I was there, lying
flat, although there was no luggage-rail, I
could grip the canopy’s edge above the driver,
for a shield, which is called a ‘sun-visor,’
was there to conceal my hands.</p>

<p class="pindent">In a flash I was sitting sideways upon the
bough, and, as the car came back for the last
time, I stepped gingerly on to its roof, trusting
to my rubber-soled shoes to make no noise.
I was flat in an instant, or the branch would
have knocked me down, and a moment later
I had fast hold of the rim which was to keep
me steady and save me from sliding off.</p>

<p class="pindent">As the car thrust forward——</p>

<p class="pindent">“Bunch,” said ‘Rose’ Noble to the
driver, “if you see that cyclist, run him
down.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“You bet,” said Bunch, and put the car
at the hill with the rush of a bull.</p>

<p class="pindent">I was not much alarmed for Bell’s safety,
for I was quite certain that he had observed
‘Rose’ Noble and, if he was yet upon the
road, had only to hear the car coming to
disappear. Indeed, I had my work cut out
to think for myself, for the road was none
too even and I was mortally afraid of losing
my place.</p>

<p class="pindent">Bunch was a good driver and swooped at his
corners in a spectacular way, but, whenever
he swung the car round, I had to fight like
a madman to stay where I was, and if the
fowls of the air have a sense of humour my
progress must have afforded them infinite
mirth. Except for one sharp descent, our
road continued to rise or to keep the height
it had won; and so far as I can remember
we met no other vehicle. Two or three
peasants passed, and the sight of them
staring at me sent my heart to my mouth;
but no one of those in the car seemed to
notice their gaze, or, if they did, to find it
curious.</p>

<p class="pindent">At last we came to cross roads, where we
turned to the right, and very soon after, we
left the road for a drive which led into a wood
so artlessly and was so shrouded with moss
and the litter the trees had made that a man
might have passed it by, as promising
nothing at all. Yet in less than two minutes
of time the wood was behind us, and we were
heading for a castle which seemed to me to
command all the kingdoms of the earth.</p>

<p class="pindent">We were now upon the spur of a mountain,
and, I judged, some three thousand feet up.
The drive ran straight down the spur, the
sides of which were plainly precipitous, for,
after a little, the turf which flanked the drive
fell suddenly out of sight. The whole of the
end of the spur was masked by the castle’s
façade, and it was easy to see that the building
had been set on the spur as the nail upon a
man’s finger, that is to say, moated on three
of its sides by God knows what depths and
accessible only on the fourth.</p>

<p class="pindent">The walls were high and massive, rose into
battlements and looked as good as new; and
the place had an air of being old rather than
ancient and more of an aerie than a keep. It
was clearly inhabited, for there were blinds
in its windows and smoke was rising from
some chimney I could not see. Indeed, I
could see nothing beyond the great façade,
except a crocketed spire which stood up on
the left. A stout, round tower rose at each
end of the wall: these were corniced and had
red, conical roofs: in the midst of the wall
was a gateway, the great doors of which were
shut.</p>

<p class="pindent">I was now trembling with excitement, for
the castle, of course, was the goal to which
we had been trying to come, but what carried
me away was the knowledge that I was about
to be landed within its walls. Once I was in,
and my presence unsuspected, who could tell
what might not come about?</p>

<p class="pindent">A yard or so from the gateway Bunch
brought the car to rest. As he did so, his
passengers alighted and passed at once to a
wicket, cut out of the left-hand door. Then
a bell clanged, and almost at once I heard
steps. There was a grill in the wicket, and
somebody drew its shutter to look between
its bars. Whoever it was must have seen
me, had not ‘Rose’ Noble’s head been in the
way.</p>

<p class="pindent">“All right?” I heard him say.</p>

<p class="pindent">“O.K.,” said the other, and opened the
little door. ‘Rose’ Noble and Casemate
passed in.</p>

<p class="pindent">Now, as soon as the car had stopped, I
had moved as far as I could to the right of
the canopy, so as to make the most of what
cover I had: whether I moved again was
depending on where the man stood who
admitted the car. With one of the great
doors set wide the car could pass in, and, if,
as I fully expected, the left-hand door was
opened, the porter was sure to hold it and I
should be out of his sight.</p>

<p class="pindent">Now so much fell out very well. Only one
door was opened, and that was the left:
I saw the hands of the porter pulling it back:
<span class="it">but the door had been made in two halves, and,
while the lower swung open, the upper stayed
fast</span>.</p>

<p class="pindent">The car was about to pass in—<span class="it">with three
inches of headroom to spare</span>, and, if I
stayed on her roof, I should be swept off or
crushed—probably crushed.</p>

<p class="pindent">Had I not been on the edge, I must have
been badly hurt, for Bunch thrust forward,
as though he knew I was there.</p>

<p class="pindent">I got to my knees and jumped as best I
could.</p>

<p class="pindent">Happily I lit upon turf, but this sloped
down from the drive, and I tumbled, like a
clown in the sawdust, before I could bring
myself up. As I did so, I heard the door shut
and the bolts shot home.</p>

<hr class="tbk" />

<p class="pindent">To report to Mansel was plainly the first
thing to do: and, since anyone at a window
could have shot me down, I got to my feet
and started to run for the wood. Except
that I was shaken, I felt none the worse for
my fall; and here I think I was lucky, for
I had leapt blindly and had not taken off
clean.</p>

<p class="pindent">Halfway to the wood I rested behind a
tree and looked about me.</p>

<p class="pindent">The prospect was magnificent indeed: all
around were mountains and forests, rising
and falling as far as the eye could see, and,
the sky being very blue and the sunshine
brilliant, the castle looked fabulous, and a
man that came suddenly upon it might well
have been forgiven for rubbing his eyes.</p>

<p class="pindent">How ‘Rose’ Noble had come to be so
installed I could not think, but, had he spent
his life searching, he could not have found a
prison one half so suitable. The place was
solitary and most secure: no cries could be
heard, nor any signals seen: the one approach
was hidden, and such as found it could not
conceal their coming, for there were not six
trees on the spur and the wood lay two
hundred yards from the castle wall.</p>

<p class="pindent">This reflection made me take to my heels,
for, if I could withdraw unseen, that would
be a point in our favour, and we had none
to spare. Indeed, when I thought of those
walls my spirits sank, and remembering how
near I had come to passing in, I could have
struck myself. What was worse, I was sure
that, had he been placed as I, Mansel would
somehow have done it and not have let slip
a chance which surely was gone for good.</p>

<p class="pindent">So I came to the wood, and, after watching
for some time for any sort of sign that I had
been seen, made my way down the drive as
fast as I could.</p>

<p class="pindent">Twenty minutes later I reached the cross
roads.</p>

<p class="pindent">There to my great surprise, Rowley rose
out of a ditch and said that Mansel was waiting
a stone’s throw away. Then he told me which
way to take, and a moment later I saw the
two cars below me and Mansel and George
poring over a paper book, whilst Carson was
feeding Tester and Bell was washing his face
in a little rill.</p>

<p class="pindent">They seemed very glad to see me and most
eager to hear my news.</p>

<p class="pindent">I told my tale.</p>

<p class="pindent">When I had finished, Mansel put a hand on
my arm.</p>

<p class="pindent">“William,” he said, “she will thank you.
I haven’t got the words. But please don’t
count it bad luck that you were shut out.
If you had gone in, you’d have made a fatal
mistake. Alone, unarmed and with no idea
of the building, you wouldn’t have stood an
earthly: and, what would have been far
worse, <span class="it">we shouldn’t have known where you
were</span>.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“But——”</p>

<p class="pindent">“There is no ‘but’ here,” said Mansel.
“You’ve played and you’ve won your game:
but, if you’d gone on, you’d have thrown the
rubber away. Do please remember that
battles have gone wrong, wars have been lost
and the history of the world has been changed,
because valour has outrun discretion and <span class="it">men
have lost touch</span>.”</p>

<p class="pindent">It was easy enough to see the force of his
words, and I have often thought since that
the ways of Providence are strange indeed,
for, if Casemate had not turned back, I should
not have hung in the oak, and, if the castle
door had not been cut asunder, I am sure that
I should not have lived to tell this tale.</p>

<p class="pindent">Then Mansel told me that Bell had seen
‘Rose’ Noble go by and had followed him
down; that George and Bell had both seen
me on the roof of the car and, while George
had pushed on to the cross roads, Bell had
raced back to meet Mansel and bring up the
cars.</p>

<p class="pindent">“And now,” said he, “to breakfast. I
picked up some food at Lass. And you’ll
be glad of a wash. And as soon as ever
we’ve done, I want you to show us around.”</p>

<p class="pindent">Whilst we were eating, we decided that
Mansel and George and I should go out on
foot, that one servant should watch the
cross roads and the others stay with the cars
until we returned. If one of the enemy
passed he was not to be stopped or followed,
but only marked, “for,” said Mansel, “Mr.
Chandos has done the trick, and we don’t want
to start a new hare till we know where we are.
Of course, if ‘Rose’ Noble comes by, you
will shoot him at sight: but, unless I’m
much mistaken, he won’t come out any
more.”</p>

<p class="pindent">With that, he told Carson and Bell to
serve out a pistol apiece, and, when this
was done, he and George and I set out for
the wood.</p>

<p class="pindent">As we went I asked what was the book
which I had found them reading when I
came in.</p>

<p class="pindent">George pulled it out of his pocket and held
it up.</p>

<p class="pindent">“Souvenir,” he said. “When I gave the
bookseller his money and borrowed his
plumes, he pressed this into my hand. He
had a speech ready, I fear, but, beyond that
he was the author, I have no idea what he
said. Whilst I was waiting at the cross
roads I looked to see what it was. It’s a
guide in English to Lass and the neighbourhood.
The grammar’s unequal, but, if I
could write half as good a guide in German, I
should be more than pleased. And it’s got
a good plan of Lass and a couple of maps.”</p>

<p class="pindent">We said no more at that time, for we were
approaching the wood.</p>

<p class="pindent">This we afterwards found was nearly a
mile across, by some half a mile in depth.
The drive which led to the spur went to the
heart of the thicket and there turned sharp
to the left: from there it ran slightly up hill
to the edge of the wood and then directly
down to the castle gate. It follows that,
from anyone walking, the spur and the castle
were hidden till he came to the edge of the
wood, but then burst upon him in an instant,
as though some curtain had suddenly been
let fall.</p>

<p class="pindent">Before we breasted the rise, for caution’s
sake we had stepped in among the trees, and,
when I had parted the branches and Mansel
and George had come up, I heard the one
catch his breath, while the other stood staring
like a zany upon the remarkable scene.</p>

<p class="pindent">Presently we moved to a knoll and lay down
behind its swell.</p>

<p class="pindent">The spur was empty, and the castle walls
bare as I had left them: only the smoke I
had noticed gave any sign of life.</p>

<p class="pindent">“Where’s that guide?” said Mansel suddenly.
“See if it mentions this place.”</p>

<p class="pindent">Hanbury had the book in an instant and
was studying one of its maps.</p>

<p class="pindent">“Gath,” he said, after a moment. “This
should be the Castle of Gath. And now for
the text.”</p>

<p class="pindent">Hastily he scanned the pages.</p>

<p class="pindent">Then he bent the book open and gave it
into Mansel’s hand.</p>

<p class="pindent">And, since I cannot better the bookseller’s
description of the place, I will set it down
word for word.</p>

<div class="blockquote">

<p class="line" style="text-align:center;"><span class="it">THE CASTLES OF GATH.</span></p>

<p class="pindent"><span class="it">Few peoples know of this castles, because great
care was taken from at first that it must be most
private and for a long time it was not mark on
the state maps.</span></p>

<p class="pindent"><span class="it">Gath was builted in the end of the fifteenth
century by the great King Maximilian, Holy
Roman Emperor, ‘The Last of the Knights,’
as he is named by his proud loving subjects,
so as to be a tranquil castles where he can
retire to rest sometimes from the cares of reign.
It was always kept in readiness to receive him
and a small suite.</span></p>

<p class="pindent"><span class="it">The visitor who will go the seven miles
according to the plan of the page 7 will be
handsomely rewarded, for the site is unique
and the building is posed on the brink of a
mountain and seems to be a veritable ‘castles
in the air.’ It is easy to believe that the great
King was happy to stay here during his short
respites and in the company of a few trusteds
retainers to find peace and refreshment, not to
be said inspirations for future glory.</span></p>

<p class="pindent"><span class="it">But if one has found it so fine to see from
afar, it will be a pity not to visit the interior.
This may be done on Wednesdays and
Saturdays between two and four o’clock by
permission of the present owner. Count ——
of ——.</span></p>

<p class="pindent"><span class="it">The visiting of the apartments is made under
the custody of a caretakers who fulfils intelligence
with curtesy.</span></p>

<p class="pindent"><span class="it">We now enter by a deep archway into a fine
courtyard, with a waterbason in its midst. A
spring rises in the bason and flows in a cascade
through the courtyard and under a smaller
archway. Let us follow it. Lo, we are in a
pretty terrace, where flowers blow, and running
all of the length of the South of the Castles, not
counting the round tower at each end. Here
we seem to be standing on the edge of some
earth, for the green cliff falls down directly and
the cascade curves over it like a bow. This is
the water supplies of the Castles</span>.</p>

<p class="pindent"><span class="it">We now retrace our steps to the courtyard
and ascend the Grand Staircase on the West.
The first room is an antichamber, as the furniture
suggests, for everything has been left in the
State Apartments as when the great King died.</span></p>

<p class="pindent"><span class="it">The following was the reception room of the
King. The tapestries are notable.</span></p>

<p class="pindent"><span class="it">From this we go into a gallery of stone.
Here, no doubt, were guards when the King was
there, for the gallery is at the corner of the
courtyard and the King’s apartments are about
to begin. This gallery leads into the south-west
tower, which is not shown and has been
modernized, and another staircase goes down
from it to the terrace where the flowers blow.</span></p>

<p class="pindent"><span class="it">Now we come to the south front and the
King’s apartments. These are untoucheds.</span></p>

<p class="pindent"><span class="it">The first is another antichamber.</span></p>

<p class="pindent"><span class="it">Then we enter the royal dining-room. The
tapestries are very fine. The visitor will observe
that the room is not large because the King has
not entertained a guest here.</span></p>

<p class="pindent"><span class="it">We now pass into the King’s Bedchamber.
This is very stately. The crimson hangings of
the magnificent bed and the superb furniture
and tapestries, the richery of the polished
woodcarvings all reflects the departed majesty
of ‘The Last of the Knights.’</span></p>

<p class="pindent"><span class="it">The King’s Closet comes next.</span></p>

<p class="pindent"><span class="it">From this we enter the Queen’s Bedchamber,
which is like the King’s, but, of course, less
magnificence. The hangings are purple.</span></p>

<p class="pindent"><span class="it">Then comes another day-chamber for the uses
of the Queen, and we then enter an antichamber
before passing into a stony gallery similar in
all respects to the first.</span></p>

<p class="pindent"><span class="it">The south-east tower is not shown.</span></p>

<p class="pindent"><span class="it">Now we come to the oratory. There is a
door and stairs going down from the oratory
into the chapel. There are many shrines in
the mountains, but not like this. It is still
here always, in the midst of the storm. The
glass in the panes is unquestionable and the
finery of the woodcarving is beyond praise.</span></p>

<p class="pindent"><span class="it">That is all that is shown.</span></p>

<p class="pindent"><span class="it">The other part of the Castles have been
modernized.</span></p>

<p class="pindent"><span class="it">It is regretful that, since above written, the
owner of Gath has lately died and there is a
lawsuit for the possession of the Castles.
Because of which the interior is not now
shown.</span></p>

</div>

<p class="pindent">This admirable description we read all
three together, Mansel holding the book and
waiting, until we had finished, to turn a page.</p>

<p class="pindent">When it was done, he looked up into the
sky.</p>

<p class="pindent">Presently he sighed.</p>

<p class="pindent">“One has much to be thankful for,” he
said. And then, “Let’s hope they let her
walk on ‘the pretty terrace, where flowers
blow.’ ”</p>

<p class="pindent">Hanbury and I said nothing, for, indeed,
there was nothing to be said.</p>

<p class="pindent">Presently Mansel spoke again.</p>

<p class="pindent">“One thing stands out—any chance of a
snap division, which we may have thought
we had, can be written right off. If they
thought we were still at Villach, it would be
different: when your enemy’s that far away,
you’re apt to be careless about keeping the
door he can’t enter and watching the wall he
can’t scale. But to rush a position like this
when it’s properly manned is quite impossible.
Very well. There’s only one thing to do,
and that is to go on play-acting.</p>

<p class="pindent">“If Chandos was not seen on the spur—and
I think it unlikely that he was—‘Rose’
Noble has a right to infer that when we
came to the cross roads we didn’t know
which way to go. Well, he hasn’t much use
for inferences, and so I propose to prove to
his satisfaction that this inference is a fact.
We’re going to forget about Gath, and we’re
going to scour the country for miles around.
We shall take up our quarters at Lass, come
to the cross roads at dawn and spend the
whole of the day visiting villages and farms
and combing the countryside. While we are
doing this we shall take care to study Gath
<span class="it">from every side</span>. That’ll be easy enough.
And to-morrow, to round the picture, we
shall discover the castle and drive up and
ring the bell. I don’t imagine ‘Rose’ Noble
will answer the door, but I’m sure that he’ll
be within earshot and I’d like him to hear
what I say.</p>

<p class="pindent">“And, if all goes well, two or three days
later we’ll call again. But this time we’ll
come by night, and I think we’ll let the
bell go.”</p>

<p class="pindent">For a little we lay there silent, digesting
his words.</p>

<p class="pindent">Then—</p>

<p class="pindent">“At the moment,” said I, “they’ve lost
us. Doesn’t it seem a pity to let them find
us again?”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Yes,” said Mansel, “it does. But no
man can have it both ways. So long as he’s
out of touch, ‘Rose’ Noble won’t close an
eye: and so long as his eyes are open, we
shall never get into Gath. So far as I can
see, one sentry is more than enough to watch
those walls. Very well. Would you omit
that precaution, when the last time you’d
seen the enemy he was two miles away?”</p>

<p class="pindent">Hanbury fingered his chin.</p>

<p class="pindent">“How did ‘Rose’ Noble get there?” he
said. “I mean, it’s a private house.”</p>

<p class="pindent">Mansel shrugged his shoulders.</p>

<p class="pindent">“I imagine he’s bought the caretakers.
It’s often been done in London—in the good
old days. And there it was dangerous: but
here there’s next to no risk. No neighbours
to raise their eyebrows: seven miles from
the nearest town: ownership in dispute, and
no visitors allowed. Once he had found the
place, it was too easy.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“I agree,” said Hanbury. “And the
greatest of these is ‘ownership in dispute.’
Supposing the disputants heard that the
Castle of Gath was taking in paying
guests.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“What then?” said Mansel.</p>

<p class="pindent">“Well, wouldn’t they take some action?”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Of course they would,” said Mansel.
“But what action would they take?”</p>

<p class="pindent">“I don’t know,” said Hanbury. “But——”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Neither do I,” said Mansel, “and there’s
the rub. If they’d let me take the action,
well and good. But they’d never do that.
If I pitched it in pretty strong, they’d
probably come along with a couple of local
police and a lawyer’s clerk. . . . And don’t
forget—whatever action was taken, ‘Rose’
Noble would know whom to thank. He’d
know that I was behind it, and I’m frankly
afraid to think what his answer would be.
You see, ‘the goods are perishable.’ Because
of that, <span class="it">we must never let him see that the game
is up. It’s got to be up, before he sees that
it’s up . . . before he has time to hit back</span>. . . .”</p>

<p class="pindent">Half an hour later we were at the cross
roads.</p>

<p class="pindent">It was now eleven o’clock, and within a
quarter of an hour our plans were laid.</p>

<p class="pindent">For five miles about we were to prove the
country, making no attempt at concealment
and courting the observation of anyone
watching from Gath: in this way, whilst
appearing to search, we should gain such a
knowledge of the district as might any
moment be of the greatest use. In the
course of our movements we were to visit
two points from each of which it seemed
likely that a man could look full upon Gath:
these particular visits were, of course, to be
surreptitiously made, and we hoped that they
would help us to discover whether an
endeavour to climb to the castle by the
cliffs could possibly succeed.</p>

<p class="pindent">Mansel and I would take one car, and
Hanbury and Bell the other: each patrol
was to go its own way, returning to
the cross roads at sundown, en route for
Lass.</p>

<p class="pindent">Carson and Rowley, meanwhile, were to
lie close in a wood and take their rest, “for
to-night,” said Mansel, “you two must
drive to Poganec and take Captain Pleydell
our news.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“How much shall you tell him?” said I,
as we took to the car.</p>

<p class="pindent">“Only where he can find me and that we
know where she is.”</p>

<p class="pindent">Yet when the time came to send it, the
note was longer than that.</p>

<p class="pindent">It was half past three when Mansel and I
began to ascend a mountain which we thought
must command the castle and be commanded
in turn. Its sides and peak were wooded, so
we had little to fear. The Rolls we had left
with Tester by the side of the way, and each
of us carried a binocular of a considerable
power.</p>

<p class="pindent">At last we came to the summit, and almost
at once we saw Gath, not directly opposed,
but lying a little to the left, so that we
could observe the whole of its south and
east sides.</p>

<p class="pindent">I could dwell upon its emplacement, but
I should waste my words, for I have not the
pen to hail a miracle, and that is what we
saw.</p>

<p class="pindent">Enough that the face of the cliff was
‘produced’ in the castle walls, and that
Gath was the crown upon a crag that no man
could ever scale.</p>

<p class="pindent">So much the naked eye showed us.</p>

<p class="pindent">It was the binoculars that showed us
Adèle.</p>

<p class="pindent">She was standing on the little terrace,
with her hands on the balustrade. Whether
she was watched I cannot say, but she
was alone. Below her was the leaping
cascade, and, behind, an archway, framing
a door that was shut. She was standing
very still; her head was up, and her
eyes lifted to the peak upon which we
stood.</p>

<p class="pindent">Mansel tore off his wrist-watch, ripped its
case open and thrust the watch into my
hand.</p>

<p class="pindent">“Flash it in the sun,” he said, clapping
the glasses to his eyes. “If she sees it, she’ll
understand.”</p>

<p class="pindent">The silver was bright as a mirror, and,
while Mansel watched her, I twitched the
case to and fro.</p>

<p class="pindent">At last—</p>

<p class="pindent">“She’s seen it,” he said. “Now flash it
six times, and cover it up with your hand
between each flash.”</p>

<p class="pindent">I did so.</p>

<p class="pindent">“Now flash it once more,” said Mansel.
“And then cover up.”</p>

<p class="pindent">I did as he said.</p>

<p class="pindent">After what seemed a long time—</p>

<p class="pindent">“Flash it again,” said he.</p>

<p class="pindent">I did so: and, after a little, he told me to
pocket the watch.</p>

<p class="pindent">At last he put down his glasses and wiped
the sweat from his face.</p>

<p class="pindent">“She saw the signals,” he said. “She
raised her hand. When you had acknowledged
her gesture, she turned away. She’s—very
wise.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Has she gone?”</p>

<p class="pindent">He nodded.</p>

<p class="pindent">“She went up the staircase into the left-hand
tower. And, after a moment, she
showed some white at that window, halfway
up. When you acknowledged that, she
took it away. She’s very wise—Adèle.”</p>

<p class="pindent">That was a true saying: only the quickest
wit and the steadiest brain would ever have
done so well. I think her heart must have
leapt, but she took no needless risk. One
wave of her hand, and then—straight to her
quarters to show us where she was lodged.
And that was all. She had no more to tell
us, and the game was a dangerous one. The
sooner it was done, the better for all
concerned.</p>

<p class="pindent">And here for the first time I saw how well
and truly she and Mansel were matched.
They were made of the same fine substance,
a little higher than their fellows, and could
speak a common language which others did
not know. And, as Mansel and I lay there,
on the edge of the great gulf fixed between us
and Gath, I remember wondering whether,
could she have done so, Adèle would have
kept such letters as she had received from
him.</p>

<p class="pindent">At sundown we joined the others at the
cross roads, and within the hour we sat
down to supper at Lass.</p>

<p class="pindent">When they had eaten, Carson and Rowley
left for Poganec, taking a note with them.</p>

<p class="pindent">This was brief, for Mansel was a man of
few words.</p>

<div class="blockquote">

<p class="line" style="text-align:right;margin-right:1em;"><span class="it">September 6th</span>,</p>
<p class="line" style="text-align:right;margin-right:2em;"><span class="it">10 p.m.</span></p>

<p class="pindent"><span class="it">I know where Adèle is confined and saw her
to-day from a distance. She seemed to be well.
I am glad to say that I managed to attract her
attention, and she now knows that help is at
hand. I have reason to think that she is
comfortably lodged. If need be, I can be
found at the Three Kings Hotel, Lass. Please
destroy this note and communicate its contents
to no one but Daphne and Berry alone.</span></p>

</div>

<div><h1 id="chV">CHAPTER V<br /><span style="font-size:smaller"> MANSEL TAKES OFF THE GLOVES</span></h1></div>

<p class="pindent">At ten o’clock the next morning Mansel,
Carson and I visited the Castle of Gath.</p>

<p class="pindent">From first to last this visit had been
closely rehearsed, so that even a spy in the
wood would not, I think, have suspected that
we were play-acting.</p>

<p class="pindent">Indeed, the play began some miles away,
for we first seemed to notice the drive, as we
were returning to the cross roads after a
thirty-mile run. After due hesitation we
determined to see whither it led. . . .</p>

<p class="pindent">At the sight of the Castle we stopped, as
anyone would have done, and were plainly
uncertain whether or no to proceed: but,
after a little discussion, I drove the car down
the spur and drew up before the gateway in
a perfectly natural way. Then Carson opened
a door, and Mansel got out.</p>

<p class="pindent">When he had rung, he stood waiting, with
a hand on the great stone jamb, while Carson,
with his hands behind him stood leaning
against a wing, and I pulled out tobacco and
started to fill a pipe.</p>

<p class="pindent">I shall never forget those moments or how
hard it was to keep cool. Eyes were upon
us, watching each breath we drew: it was
likely that we were covered and certain that
we were at the mercy of those we were
seeking to dupe. What was about to happen,
no one could tell. For once ‘Rose’ Noble
was dealing, and, whatever the cards he
dealt us, with those we should have to play.</p>

<p class="pindent">The day was very fine, and a gentle breeze
was blowing across the spur: except for the
whisper of the engine, there was no sound:
and I remember thinking how gay the
greenwood looked in the brave sunshine and
how black the clean-cut shadow which the
battlements threw upon the turf.</p>

<p class="pindent">After a little, Mansel rang again.</p>

<p class="pindent">For an age we waited: then I heard a step
on the pavement and the click of a lock.
Then two bolts were drawn, the wicket
swung open, and a woman put out her head.</p>

<p class="pindent">“Good-day,” said Mansel, using German.
“What’s the name of this place?”</p>

<p class="pindent">“The Castle of Gath, sir.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Who lives here?”</p>

<p class="pindent">“No one, sir. My husband and I are the
caretakers.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“D’you know if it’s for sale?”</p>

<p class="pindent">The woman shook her head.</p>

<p class="pindent">“It’s not for sale, sir.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Which is the castle hereabouts which is
for sale?”</p>

<p class="pindent">“I have no idea, sir.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Well, there’s one somewhere,” said
Mansel, “not very far from here. It belongs
to an English lady, who’s out of her mind.
She drives about in a car without any hat,
and she has male nurses with her wherever
she goes. Surely you’ve heard her spoken
of?”</p>

<p class="pindent">“No, sir,” said the woman, evenly.</p>

<p class="pindent">“A big, closed car, painted grey. Sometimes
the nurses use it when she is ill.”</p>

<p class="pindent">The woman shook her head.</p>

<p class="pindent">“You surprise me,” said Mansel. “It’s
common talk down in Lass.”</p>

<p class="pindent">The woman shrugged her shoulders.</p>

<p class="pindent">“In Lass, perhaps, but we are so isolated
here.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“I wonder if your husband could help me.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“I fear he is out, sir. But I do not think
he would know.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Which way has he gone?” said Mansel.</p>

<p class="pindent">The woman mentioned a hamlet four miles
away.</p>

<p class="pindent">“Perhaps I shall meet him,” said Mansel.
“But ask him about this grey car when he
comes in.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“I will, sir.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“And the castle, or house, somewhere
round about here. And, if he thinks he can
help me, send him to The Three Kings at
Lass.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“I will, sir.”</p>

<p class="pindent">Mansel gave her money and returned to
the car.</p>

<p class="pindent">“Nothing doing,” he said shortly. “I
was afraid it was useless. Too much off the
beaten track.”</p>

<p class="pindent">As he spoke, the wicket was shut, and the
bolts were shot.</p>

<p class="pindent">“Let’s have a look at the map,” said
Mansel.</p>

<p class="pindent">I gave him the sheet.</p>

<p class="pindent">As I did so, the sharp clack of wood striking
wood came from the door. We all looked
round—naturally enough. <span class="it">Someone had
drawn the shutter which masked the grill.</span> No
doubt they would have done so in silence;
but the shutter, I suppose, resisted, and then
gave way with a rush.</p>

<p class="pindent">Mansel laughed.</p>

<p class="pindent">“Seeing us off the premises,” he said.
He returned to the map. “There’s the
village she spoke of: we might as well go
that way.” He began to fold up the map
and turned to the door. “By the way,” he
said, using German, “was your husband on
foot?”</p>

<p class="pindent">As he spoke, he stepped to the grill,
pocketing the map as he went.</p>

<p class="pindent">No answer was given.</p>

<p class="pindent">With his hand in his pocket, Mansel
peered through the bars.</p>

<p class="pindent">“I say,” he said. “My good lady. . . .”</p>

<p class="pindent">No one replied.</p>

<p class="pindent">“Come on,” said I. “She’s scared.”</p>

<p class="pindent">Mansel took his hand from his pocket and
turned away.</p>

<p class="pindent">“That’s the worst of these people,” he
said. “No sense, no observation and an
inherent fear that you’re trying to do them
down.”</p>

<p class="pindent">With that, he got into the car.</p>

<p class="pindent">Carson followed, and I drove slowly away.
Not until we were five miles off did Mansel
open his mouth.</p>

<p class="pindent">“ ‘Rose’ Noble was there all the time.
On the woman’s left. He was standing with
his back to the doors, with his arms folded
and a pistol in his right hand. I could see
him in the glass of a lantern that hangs from
the archway roof: its sides were tilted, and
it couldn’t have been better placed.</p>

<p class="pindent">“It was he that drew the shutter and
stood looking out: that’s an assumption, of
course; but I’m sure it’s correct. I went
back in the hope that he’d stay there—to,
laugh in my face. But he very properly
didn’t. He resisted a great temptation and
thereby saved his life. He wouldn’t have
expected a bullet, and I don’t think I could
have missed. When he saw me coming, he
stooped. If he’d moved, I should have heard
him: so he stood where he was and stooped.
And that was why the woman never came
back: he was in the way, and she couldn’t
get to the grill.”</p>

<p class="pindent">Then he turned to Carson and asked him
how much he had seen.</p>

<p class="pindent">“The walls are forty feet high, sir—that
is, from the gaps to the ground.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“ ‘Embrasures’ they’re called,” said
Mansel. “Yes?”</p>

<p class="pindent">“I’m sure they’re not more, sir: they
may be a foot or so less. The first windows
are fourteen feet up, but they’re very heavily
barred: so are the ones above. There’s no
downpipe at all and no ledges that you could
hold.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Then we must have a ladder?”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Three, sir. Each twelve feet long. The
first hooks on to the bars of a window fourteen
feet up: the second on to the bars of a
window above: and the third to the top of
the wall.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Very good,” said Mansel. “Are the
windows above each other?”</p>

<p class="pindent">“No, sir. Clear by about a foot. But
you go up the left of the first and the right
of the one above. There’s a gap—embrasure
directly between the two.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“I see,” said Mansel. “Wrought-iron,
one-pole ladders, made by a village smith:
ends and rungs covered with rubber tubing,
so that they make no noise.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“I hadn’t thought of that, sir.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“You would have,” said Mansel. “Once
they’re in place, it’ll be like going up stairs.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“A rough night would help, sir.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“We must hope for one,” said Mansel,
“in two days’ time. And now, Chandos, let
me drive. We must find a forge: and it’s
got to be forty miles off.”</p>

<p class="pindent">The tale we told the smith is of no
consequence: the ladders were simple to
make, and Mansel’s directions were clear:
we were to find the work done by the evening
of the following day.</p>

<p class="pindent">Then Mansel found a rope factory and
purchased a quantity of rope, after which we
drove to some town, whose name I forget,
where we bought what else we had need of
to aid our assault. All this gear we presently
hid in a dell—a pretty, private place, high up
in the fold of a mountain, some ten miles
by road from Gath. There we could work
upon it during the next two days, and thence
take it direct to the Castle when the moment
came.</p>

<p class="pindent">Of foul weather we had not much hope,
for the sky was clean, and Mansel’s barometer
set fair: “however,” said he, “I’m not going
to wait any more. At two on Friday morning
we’re going over the top: even if we don’t
get Adèle, we shall see the inside of that
rat-trap, and that’ll be devilish useful next
time we come.”</p>

<p class="pindent">How much we were nowadays watched I
do not know. A spy can go out, but he is
plainly useless unless he can later come in;
and, in view of the Casemate business—to
say nothing of that of Jute—I fancy ‘Rose’
Noble was shy of sending his subordinates
further than the edge of the wood. Had he
but known, he might have spared his concern:
the last thing we wished was to be led to the
Castle, and Mansel had given orders that, if
we saw anyone watching, we were, if we
possibly could, to turn a blind eye.</p>

<p class="pindent">Now not to look for a spy is easy enough:
yet, because, perhaps, we did not want him,
Fate must needs deliver one into our hands.</p>

<p class="pindent">This was the way of it.</p>

<p class="pindent">Both cars left Lass the next morning at
eight o’clock. We were bound for the dell,
where there was work to be done. Hitherto,
on reaching the cross roads, the cars had gone
different ways: but to-day both took the
road out of which ran the drive which served
Gath, so that, if someone was watching, he
should be able for once to account for us all.
Mansel was leading, and I was sitting with
Hanbury, who was driving the second car.</p>

<p class="pindent">No doubt our ways were known; but, be
that as it may, when Mansel had swept past
the drive, a man rose out of the bushes,
stepped to the edge of the road and stood
watching the car out of sight.</p>

<p class="pindent">To ignore him was out of the question:
we were less than a hundred yards off. If
he ran, we were bound to give chase; and
we were three to one. We might contrive
to lose him, but you cannot run through a
wood without declaring your line, and, unless
he had a fair start, such a failure would be
instantly suspected, if not by the spy, by
‘Rose’ Noble, the moment he made his
report.</p>

<p class="pindent">“Take him aboard,” said George. “It’s
the only way.”</p>

<p class="pindent">That this was so became increasingly clear,
for we made no manner of sound, and the
man was absorbed in his view of Mansel’s
car. Indeed, I had no time to think and
barely enough to act. The man had no
time to do either.</p>

<p class="pindent">As we passed, I took him by the neck, and
Bell leaned out behind me and dragged his
legs into the car.</p>

<p class="pindent">Not until then did I see that it was Jute.</p>

<p class="pindent">He did not attempt to struggle; but I
held him as I had seized him, till Bell had
strapped together his ankles and wrists.
Then we took a pistol from his pocket and
put him on the floor of the car. And so we
had meant to leave him, but such was his
criticism of our conduct that after a little
we gagged him with a handful of cotton
waste.</p>

<hr class="tbk" />

<p class="pindent">“Understand this,” said Mansel. “It’s
entirely your fault that you’re here. Chandos
would have ignored you, but you didn’t give
him a chance. You served your turn very
well, but I finished with you at Lass. A
man of your parts should have known that
and have taken the greatest care to keep
out of my way.”</p>

<p class="pindent">Jute made no answer, and presently Mansel
went on.</p>

<p class="pindent">“I have no time for a prisoner, for prisoners
must be watered and fed. So I’m going to
do one of two things. Which I do will
depend upon you. Either I return you to
‘Rose’ Noble, or else I hang you by the
neck.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Murder?” said Jute, and laughed.</p>

<p class="pindent">“Murder,” said Mansel, beginning to fill a
pipe.</p>

<p class="pindent">I glanced round the dell.</p>

<p class="pindent">The spot was peaceful: a gurgling brook,
a little lawn and the shade of spreading trees
made it seem fit for a shepherd’s piping-match.
Jute and all of us looked curiously
out of place.</p>

<p class="pindent">Perhaps, because of this, I had a strange
feeling that I should presently awake and
find that I had been dreaming, and to this
day, recalling the happenings of that sunshiny
morning, I seem to be remembering some
vision rather than a downright business of
life and death.</p>

<p class="pindent">Mansel was speaking.</p>

<p class="pindent">“Now, if I return you to ‘Rose’ Noble,
I shall take you up to the Castle and watch
you go in. That is, if it’s dark. If it’s during
the day, I shall watch from the wood. You
see, I don’t want to be seen.”</p>

<p class="pindent">Jute’s face was a study.</p>

<p class="pindent">“Now, in view of what ‘Rose’ Noble said
when you reported, after you had ‘led me
to Lass’ ”—I saw Jute start—“I imagine
your next meeting will be even less cordial—<span class="it">unless
you return precisely when you are
expected, and say nothing of having met me</span>. I
mean, he might easily argue that you had
‘led me to’ Gath.”</p>

<p class="pindent">His eyes upon Mansel’s face, Jute was
plainly thinking extremely hard.</p>

<p class="pindent">Mansel continued slowly, pressing his
tobacco home.</p>

<p class="pindent">“I can’t return you to-day, because I’ve
too much to do. In fact——”</p>

<p class="pindent">“See here,” said Jute. “You can make
it to-morrow night. Do that, and I haven’t
seen you since you went by in the car.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Don’t try to bluff,” said Mansel. “It’s
only wasting my time. You haven’t a card.
You had quite a good one about five seconds
ago: but I’ve just drawn that. You see, I
wanted to know whether ‘Rose’ Noble
would worry if you didn’t come in to-night.”</p>

<p class="pindent">I watched the blood come into the other’s
face.</p>

<p class="pindent">Mansel continued in the same even tone.</p>

<p class="pindent">“I tell you this to show you that it’s no
good playing with me. Bear that in mind.
And now to business.”</p>

<p class="pindent">I cannot describe the coldness with which
Mansel spoke: there was no insolence in
his speech, only an iron contempt, which
must, I think, have entered into the other’s
soul.</p>

<p class="pindent">“I’m going to ask you some questions,
and I’ll allow you one lie: if you tell two
lies, I shall hang you from a branch of that
oak.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“And you talk about bluff,” sneered Jute.</p>

<p class="pindent">“It’s not bluff,” said Mansel. “I’ve got
the gloves right off. Two lies, and you’re
for the high jump, as sure as I’m sitting still.
And now we’ll begin. Assume you’re on the
ramparts above the gateway. How would
you go from there to where Mrs. Pleydell
lies?”</p>

<p class="pindent">Jute gave a short laugh.</p>

<p class="pindent">“I thought,” he said, “you’d finished with
me at Lass.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“So I had,” said Mansel, bringing a match
to his pipe.</p>

<p class="pindent">“Looks like it, doesn’t it?”</p>

<p class="pindent">“I don’t care what it looks like,” said
Mansel. “But I think you may as well
know that I’m pressed for time: and, if
you elect to be hanged, I shall have less still,
because it’ll take two hours to dig you a
grave.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Rake it out,” said Jute sharply. “I
know your shape. You can wear a gun on
your back side, but it’ll never fit. You’re
out of your depth, Mansel: and, if you take
my advice, you’ll kick for the shore. Your
job’s to pay and be damned. We’ve got
your girl, and——”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Carson,” said Mansel, “get a rope on
that bough. Timber hitch on the wood, slip
knot the other end.”</p>

<p class="pindent">For a moment the servants spoke together.
Then Bell was on Rowley’s shoulders and up
in the tree, and Carson was down in a gully,
with a knife in his hand. The next minute
he reappeared, with a coil of rope on his
arm. . . .</p>

<p class="pindent">I knew that Mansel was bluffing, for he
was not a hard man. He would have killed
‘Rose’ Noble, for he was the head of the
corner, and, with his death, the conspiracy
would have gone. He would have killed
anyone whose death would materially help
him to reach Adèle. But a spy that, when
taken, refused to open his mouth, was as
safe in Mansel’s hands as a priest on his
altar steps. I knew he would never hang
Jute, though God knows he had just cause.
Mansel was bluffing: and I was greatly
afraid that the fellow would call his bluff.</p>

<p class="pindent">Mansel returned to Jute.</p>

<p class="pindent">“As I said, I’ll give you one lie. A
refusal counts as a lie. Assume you’re on
the ramparts above the gateway. How would
you go from there to where Mrs. Pleydell
lies?”</p>

<p class="pindent">After a long silence—</p>

<p class="pindent">“Which way am I facing?” said Jute
sullenly.</p>

<p class="pindent">“You are facing the wood.”</p>

<p class="pindent">Jute shut his eyes.</p>

<p class="pindent">“I turn to the right,” he said, “and go as
far as the tower. Then I turn again and
walk along by the wall. At the end of that
I come to another tower. There’s a door
there.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“In the tower?”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Yes.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Go on.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“You go through that and down steps till
you come to a hall. Cross this to the door
in front. That leads you into a room out of
which runs a flight of stairs.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Yes.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Go down them, and they’ll bring you
into her room.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Or the chapel?” said Mansel quietly.</p>

<p class="pindent">Jute started violently. Then he glared at
Mansel, with a working face.</p>

<p class="pindent">“That’s one lie,” said Mansel.</p>

<p class="pindent">Jute let himself go.</p>

<p class="pindent">Out of a foam of imprecation odd sentences
thrust, like timbers plunging in a flood.</p>

<p class="pindent">“I’ll see you, you one-legged —— . . .
Put it over, you movie king . . . When next
I meet you, I’ll cut my name on your back
. . . We’ve got the goods, and, by ——,
we’ll make you sweat . . . ‘Cut flowers’
won’t be in it . . . I’ll make you covet the
day you played me up.”</p>

<p class="pindent">Mansel put his pipe in his pocket and rose
to his feet.</p>

<p class="pindent">“You refuse to answer?”</p>

<p class="pindent">A beastly light slid into Jute’s bloodshot
eyes.</p>

<p class="pindent">“My answer’s here,” he said, glancing
down at his coat. “You were to have
had it to-night, but, if you’re not too
‘pressed for time,’ perhaps you’ll look at
it now.”</p>

<p class="pindent">To this day I cannot tell what possessed the
man.</p>

<p class="pindent">I suppose he could not forgive Mansel for
beating him at his own game: the thought
that all the antics of Hannibal Rouse had been
gravely accepted at exactly their proper
worth, the memory of the trap into which
he had so readily rushed and the bitter
reception which he had met at Gath had, I
think, inspired a hatred which knew no
law. And now to be again confounded,
outwitted and scornfully reduced had sent
the blood to his head.</p>

<p class="pindent">“What do you mean?” said Mansel.</p>

<p class="pindent">“Try my inside pocket,” said Jute.</p>

<p class="pindent">At a nod from Mansel I stepped to the
fellow’s side and took a bulging envelope out
of his coat.</p>

<p class="pindent">“That’s my answer,” said Jute, “to all
your back-chat to-day. And, between you
and me, Big Willie, I guess it’s pretty
complete.”</p>

<p class="pindent">Mansel ripped open the paper and took out
a white silk blouse. . . .</p>

<p class="pindent">I thought he would never move.</p>

<p class="pindent">After a long time, very slowly he lifted his
head.</p>

<p class="pindent">“Call the servants,” he said, “and put the
gag in his mouth.”</p>

<p class="pindent">He spoke so low that I scarcely heard what
he said: but, with his words, I knew that
Jute’s hour was come.</p>

<p class="pindent">For a moment the glade seemed misty, and
my knees loose. Then my head cleared.</p>

<p class="pindent">I saw Jute’s eyes follow Hanbury, as he
stepped to the oak: then his gaze flashed to
me, as I picked up the cotton waste. When
I approached, he recoiled.</p>

<p class="pindent">Sharply he looked at Mansel, and caught
his breath.</p>

<p class="pindent">“You—you’d never dare,” he said hoarsely.</p>

<p class="pindent">At last we had the gag in his mouth. . .</p>

<p class="pindent">“This man,” said Mansel, “is engaged in
one of the vilest crimes. In his lust for
money he is not content to play even that
filthy game according to its filthy rules.” He
held up the blouse. “<span class="it">He is trying to win by
taking Mrs. Pleydell’s clothes from her back
and advertising that outrage to make me throw
in my hand.</span> I do not think that a man who
does that is fit to live.”</p>

<p class="pindent">His eyes bulging out of his head, Jute fell
upon his knees.</p>

<p class="pindent">Mansel turned to Hanbury and me.</p>

<p class="pindent">“You will return to the cars and wait
there until I send.”</p>

<p class="pindent">We did as he said.</p>

<p class="pindent">Two hours later, Rowley brought us back
to the dell.</p>

<p class="pindent">Mansel was sitting smoking, with a distant
look in his eyes: as he worked, jacketing a
crow-bar, Carson was whistling to himself:
Bell was wiping a spade with a handful of
grass.</p>

<p class="pindent">The contented mien of the servants, if
nothing else, showed that the world was the
cleaner.</p>

<hr class="tbk" />

<p class="pindent">By half past one the next morning all of
<span class="pageno" title="137" id="Page_137"></span>
us, except Bell, were standing upon the roof
of the Castle of Gath.</p>

<p class="pindent">The night was starlit, but the moon had
set.</p>

<p class="pindent">Each of us carried a knife as well as a pistol
and wore a coil of rope, like a sash. Bell
was at the foot of the ladders, with a signal-cord
in his hand, and Tester was back in the
wood, guarding the cars.</p>

<p class="pindent">The castle was built four-square, as college
buildings, about a great courtyard. Its roof
was flat and paved and so made a spacious
rampart, which the battlements fenced upon
one hand and a massive balustrade upon the
other.</p>

<p class="pindent">Indeed, standing there in the starlight, we
seemed to be upon some ectype of the walls
of Babylon, upon which, if I rightly remember,
six chariots could be driven abreast.</p>

<p class="pindent">Peering between the balusters, I could see
the ripple of the water of which the bookseller
had written and could hear it fall out of the
basin on its way to the terrace and the
cliff.</p>

<p class="pindent">Now the basin was our first objective: and,
since a rope provides the most silent path,
we let one fall to the courtyard, and Carson
and I went down.</p>

<p class="pindent">We gained the basin and passed to the
channel it fed. This was ten inches deep,
and its floor was as smooth as glass. I
followed the channel along till I came to the
arch. This was shut by a gate, beneath
which the water flowed. The gate was of
iron and exactly fitted the arch: a man
might have lain in the channel and crawled
underneath, but, no doubt to foil such cunning,
the channel was barred with a grating,
through which the water fussed. I tested
the bars and found them firm as rock.</p>

<p class="pindent">I made my way back to Carson, and
together we sought the rope down which
we had come. Upon this Carson pulled twice,
when a hundredweight of fine rope was
lowered into our arms. We carried this to
the grating and laid it down. To its end were
attached three floats weighted with lead.
With these in my hand, I thrust my arm
under the grating as far as I could. Then
I released them, and Carson paid out the rope.
Now if there was another grating, this would
arrest the floats: but, if there was not, the
floats would leap with the water and carry the
rope down the cliff. With a hand on the
sliding rope, I waited for the check. But
none came: only a sudden pull told us that
the floats had leapt. There were eight
hundred feet of cord, and, when we had paid
them all out, we returned for more. Six
hundred feet more we lowered, and that was
as much as we had. The end we made fast
to the grating below <span class="it">the water line</span>. Then we
went back to the rope down which we had
come, and at a signal the others pulled
us up.</p>

<p class="pindent">Whatever the night might bring forth, we
had taken at least one trick; for, though this
time we might fail to release Adèle, we had
now a way up to the terrace which the enemy
would not dream of and a desperate man
might take.</p>

<p class="pindent">We were now beneath the shadow of the
tower to the right of the gateway as you came
from the wood: the south-west tower, from
which Adèle had signalled, lay the length of
the castle away.</p>

<p class="pindent">So far as we knew, there were two ways
into that tower from the open air—one by
the roof and another by the steps from the
terrace upon which we had seen Adèle. The
windows which lighted the tower were not to
be reached, and the conical roof of the tower
gave us no hope. And, since the way by
the roof was plainly the first to try, we began
to steal over the pavement, one by one.</p>

<p class="pindent">Mansel went first: the rest of us followed,
at one-minute intervals. Only Rowley stood
fast, with a signal cord in each hand.</p>

<p class="pindent">I had gone most of the way, when I felt
a hand on my arm.</p>

<p class="pindent">At once I stopped, and Hanbury, who was
before me, spoke in my ear.</p>

<p class="pindent">“There’s an alarm-cord, knee-high, two
paces from where you stand. Tell Carson
and then come on.”</p>

<p class="pindent">He left me to wait for Carson and disappeared.</p>

<p class="pindent">I was desperately afraid of fouling the cord,
so I went on my stomach until the danger
was past. I afterwards found that the others
had done the same.</p>

<p class="pindent">Mansel and Hanbury were waiting, when I
came to the tower. And, as we had expected,
there was a door. . . .</p>

<p class="pindent">The door was of wood, very massive and
studded with iron. It was shut and locked,
or bolted, upon the other side. Whether we
could have forced it, I do not know: but
Jack Sheppard himself could not have had it
open without making noise enough to awaken
the dead.</p>

<p class="pindent">And there, of course, was our principal
handicap.</p>

<p class="pindent">The door of Adèle’s apartment was sure to
be locked; but that we were ready to force,
no matter what noise we made: until,
however, we were standing without her door,
we dared make no manner of sound, for, the
instant the alarm was raised, ‘Rose’ Noble
was certain to fly to his prisoner’s side and,
if he was there before us, to put her life in
the balance against our further advance.</p>

<p class="pindent">There was nothing to be done but to try
the terrace steps.</p>

<p class="pindent">In silence we passed to the battlements,
and from there looked down upon the terrace
and the sliding ribbon of water that cut it in
two. It was quieter here than in the courtyard,
where the four walls gave back sound;
the steady rustle of the cascade was only
just to be heard.</p>

<p class="pindent">In a moment a rope was dangling, and
Mansel and George went down.</p>

<p class="pindent">That the steps would offer an entrance we
had great hope, for the bookseller’s guide had
said nothing of any door, but only that the
steps led out of the ‘gallery of stone.’</p>

<p class="pindent">Carson and I stood like statues, he holding
the signal cord and I with the rope in my
hand.</p>

<p class="pindent">Two gentle pulls from below told us to
take the strain, and a moment later Hanbury
was by our side.</p>

<p class="pindent">He put his lips to my ear.</p>

<p class="pindent">“There’s a door at the top of the steps—locked.
Mansel’s reconnoitring the terrace
and then coming up.”</p>

<p class="pindent">I confess that my spirits sank.</p>

<p class="pindent">To enter by some window seemed now the
only way: and we had already decided that,
if we were put to such a shift, we must essay
some window that looked upon the terrace
below. What windows looked into the courtyard
we neither knew nor cared, for anyone
at work in the courtyard would be working
in a four-walled trap and could be observed
and commanded from any side.</p>

<p class="pindent">Now the windows that looked upon the
terrace were those of the royal rooms. <span class="it">They
were not barred</span>, because, I suppose, with
guards upon the roof and in the galleries, no
one could have come upon the King.</p>

<p class="pindent">Again, <span class="it">that the royal apartments would be
occupied was most unlikely</span>. The caretakers
might have been bribed, but they would
certainly stipulate that the state rooms were
not to be used. The last thing we wanted to
do was to force an entrance into an occupied
room.</p>

<p class="pindent">Finally, <span class="it">the windows of the royal apartments
had the world to themselves</span>, for the towers
which flanked the terrace were presenting
two empty walls. Of no other side of the
castle could the same thing be said.</p>

<p class="pindent">Now which of the seven windows might be
the best to essay we could not tell, but reason
suggested that the one which was nearest
Adèle should be the first to be tried. This we
supposed to be serving the antechamber
which admitted directly into the ‘gallery of
stone.’</p>

<p class="pindent">It was our belief that if we could reach the
gallery we should have the control we sought,
for, so far as we could determine, no one could
enter the tower without passing through the
gallery, unless he came down from the roof
by the door which we had found shut. This
belief we found to be just: the gallery was
the key to the tower, and whoever held
the gallery held Adèle. But one thing we did
not suspect, namely, that there was a way into
the gallery of which the bookseller’s guide
said nothing at all.</p>

<p class="pindent">A quarter of an hour went by before Mansel
gave us the signal to hoist him up.</p>

<p class="pindent">As he alighted, I perceived that he was
drenched to the skin.</p>

<p class="pindent">At once he drew us together and spoke very
low.</p>

<p class="pindent">“At the head of each flight of steps there’s
a massive door: both doors are fast. The
door at the mouth of the archway is shut and
locked. I managed to pass beneath it, by
lying down in the channel and working my
way along. In the side of the archway I
found a flight of steps—a very steep spiral
staircase, that comes to a sudden end. I’m
certain it serves a trap-door. If the bookseller’s
guide is sound, that trap-door should
be in the King’s Closet. That would be
natural enough.</p>

<p class="pindent">“We can’t go that way to-night, because
the trap-door is fast. At least, I imagine it
is, because I can’t move the slab I found at the
top of the stairs: but, if we can enter the
Closet by some other way to-night, we can
unbar the trap-door, and then, when we come
by the terrace, we shall have our way in.
Don’t think I’ve no hope of to-night, because I
have: but, <span class="it">if we fail this time, we shall
certainly fail the next—unless we can turn this
failure into a stepping-stone</span>.”</p>

<p class="pindent">With that he told Carson to let him have
his shoes, because they were dry, and then
to stand fast where he was, with the signal
cord in his hand. George and I were to
follow the way he went.</p>

<p class="pindent">We moved as before, one by one, and, when
again I found him, he was standing above the
archway through which the water flowed.</p>

<p class="pindent">I knew that below us was a window of
three long lights.</p>

<p class="pindent">An instant later Mansel was descending the
wall.</p>

<p class="pindent">This time we used two ropes, one fastened
about him and the other down which he slid.
When he jerked the one about him, we were to
make this fast: and, if he should pull it five
times, George was to go for Carson and they
were to let me down.</p>

<p class="pindent">Wet to the skin, clinging like a fly to the
wall, with only one hand to help him, without
a glimmer of light, Mansel worked upon that
window for half an hour. I was kneeling
directly above him, but I never heard a sound.
Indeed, I could not believe that he was at
work, but supposed that he had seen someone
within the room and was content to watch
them from where he hung. Yet all the time
he was drawing the wrought-iron latch—a
feat which, had he not done it, I would have
put beyond the power of man.</p>

<p class="pindent">At last the ropes trembled and then swung
slack in my hands. An instant later he
signalled that he was within the room.</p>

<p class="pindent">When I came down, he swung me in like
a baby and asked for my torch.</p>

<p class="pindent">The room was stately and full of the smell
of age. The floor was of polished oak: the
walls were panelled head high and tapestried
above. The furniture was rich and massive,
but very stiff, and had been ranged in order
against the walls. A heavy carpet, much
smaller than the room, lay in the midst of the
floor, but all the furniture stood clear upon
the oak. The two doors were conspicuous, for
their frames rose above the panelling and each
of them was fitted with a box lock of polished
steel.</p>

<p class="pindent">With one consent we turned to the door
upon our left.</p>

<p class="pindent">Very slowly, with infinite care, Mansel
drew the spring latch. At once the door
yielded, and Mansel set it wide. Not until
he had wedged it with a morsel of rubber did
we pass on.</p>

<p class="pindent">So we entered the King’s Bedchamber.</p>

<p class="pindent">Not even the unjust light of the torch could
deny the majesty of that room.</p>

<p class="pindent">I have never beheld a chamber so fit to
lodge a king, and all the standards of greatness
which the fairy-tales I read as a child had
set in my heart were in a twinkling supplanted
by what I saw.</p>

<p class="pindent">The ceiling was of black oak, picked out
with gold. The walls were panelled head-high:
between the panels stood pilasters,
picked out with gold. The carving of the
panels and pilasters was very deep. Above
the panelling hung tapestries, very rich in
colour, presenting hunting scenes. The bedstead
was four-posted: each of the posts was
carved into the life-size semblance of a man-at-arms:
coverlet, canopy and curtains were
of what seemed to be a crimson faced cloth,
very fine to look at and clearly of a great
weight: all the stuffs and hangings with which
the furniture was done were of the same
dignity. The floor was of polished oak.</p>

<p class="pindent">We stole across to the door in the farther
wall.</p>

<p class="pindent">This admitted us to the royal dining-room.</p>

<p class="pindent">This chamber resembled the Closet and was
of much the same size. A handsome table
stood in the midst of the floor.</p>

<p class="pindent">We wasted no time but passed on.</p>

<p class="pindent">A moment later we stood in the antechamber.</p>

<p class="pindent">This was small, but notable. The walls were
not panelled, but covered with tapestry.
Two massive, high-backed chairs were all the
furniture.</p>

<p class="pindent">The door we now found before us was not
at all like those through which we had come.
It admitted of course to the gallery which
led to the tower: and it was like a church
door, that is to say, iron-studded, and Gothic
in shape. A wrought-iron lock of great size
was fixed upon the inside, and above this a
simple latch which had only to be lifted to
be freed.</p>

<p class="pindent">If hope could but open gates, I think this
door would have crumbled before our eyes:
but hope cannot open gates, and—the door
was fast.</p>

<p class="pindent">Mansel stood very still.</p>

<p class="pindent">At length he gave a short sigh and touched
me upon the arm. A moment later we were
moving the way we had come.</p>

<p class="pindent">When we were again in the Closet, he put
his mouth to my ear.</p>

<p class="pindent">“Take a message to Hanbury. He and
Carson will bring every tool we have to the
south-west tower: then they will let fall a
rope to the window of the antechamber,
moving it to and fro until we take hold:
when we do that they will come and take up
the ropes which are hanging outside this room.”</p>

<p class="pindent">When I returned, Mansel was down on his
knees by a hole in the floor. On the carpet,
now drawn to one side, lay a square of polished
wood. The recess which he had disclosed was
floored by a grey, stone slab: this had a ring
in its midst and was rudely locked into place
by a pair of hasps and staples, the pins of
which Mansel had withdrawn.</p>

<p class="pindent">Gently I lifted the slab, to disclose the
winding stair which led to the archway
below.</p>

<p class="pindent">“Can you hold it?” breathed Mansel.</p>

<p class="pindent">I nodded.</p>

<p class="pindent">At once he replaced the square of polished
wood: then he laid the carpet, face downward,
between my legs.</p>

<p class="pindent">I lowered the slab.</p>

<p class="pindent">Using the carpet as a sledge, we drew the
slab into the Bedchamber and up to the
King’s bed. There we transferred it to
my coat, and, lifting the crimson valence,
thrust it beneath the bedstead and out of
sight.</p>

<p class="pindent">To restore the carpet to its place, close the
window and take the wedge from the door
took but a moment of time.</p>

<p class="pindent">Then Mansel gave me a cloth and bade me
polish the woodwork where we had stepped,
especially about the casement which we had
used.</p>

<p class="pindent">When I had done so, he overlooked all with
the torch.</p>

<p class="pindent">Then we stole out of the room and closed
the door.</p>

<p class="pindent">Five minutes later we stood again in the
antechamber and when we had opened a casement
and found the rope, there was nothing
to show, much less to suggest that we had
seen the inside of any other room.</p>

<p class="pindent">“And now the tools,” said Mansel, “and
then Hanbury. Carson to stay where he is.
We shall make the devil’s own noise, and he
is to shoot at sight.” I climbed up and gave
the message as fast as I could.</p>

<p class="pindent">The time was now half past three: the
stars were no more to be seen, and rain had
begun to fall. This to our liking, for now
any footprints we had made above or below
would be wiped out: but the wet was against
our foothold, and, as I came back, I slipped
on the window-sill.</p>

<p class="pindent">We had received the tools and were
awaiting Hanbury, when some door within
the castle was sharply closed.</p>

<p class="pindent">It was some door behind us—not very far
away.</p>

<p class="pindent">Called upon to say which, I would have
named the door of the Closet. The clash of
a heavy, spring lock was unmistakable.</p>

<p class="pindent">Mansel put out the light, and we stood as
still as death, straining our ears for footsteps
and hearing none.</p>

<p class="pindent">A rustle without the window told us that
Hanbury had begun to descend the rope.</p>

<p class="pindent">We could not stop him, for we had no
signal-cord, and together we stood to the
window to take him in without sound.</p>

<p class="pindent">As we did so, came the creak of a floor-board,
faint yet distinct. I would have said
that it came from the Dining-room.</p>

<p class="pindent">It was now as dark as pitch. I could not
even see Mansel, two feet from where I stood.</p>

<p class="pindent">Something swayed at the window. . . .</p>

<p class="pindent">Then we had George in our arms and
Mansel was unfastening the rope which was
holding him up.</p>

<p class="pindent">Again I heard a board creak—somewhere
at hand.</p>

<p class="pindent">With the greatest care we lowered George
to his feet. As we did so, the daïs upon
which we were standing tilted suddenly
forward, and, with nothing to save us, the
three of us crashed to the ground. As we
fell, the massive step resumed its proper
position with a deafening clap.</p>

<p class="pindent">There had been nothing to show that the
step was not fixed, and, indeed, it was so
solid that I do not think it would have moved
under ordinary use: but the weight of three
men happening to fall upon its edge had, I
suppose, been too much for its counterpoise.</p>

<p class="pindent">For a moment we lay as we had fallen,
straining our ears: then Mansel got to his
feet and lighted the torch.</p>

<p class="pindent">“You two all right?” he said.</p>

<p class="pindent">We told him ‘yes.’</p>

<p class="pindent">“Then quick,” says he, “for, by thunder,
we’ve rung the bell.”</p>

<p class="pindent">With that, he set Hanbury to watch the
Dining-room door and hold the torch, while
I took the stoutest chisel and laid its edge
where the lock met the wood of the door.</p>

<p class="pindent">“You strike,” said Mansel, taking it out
of my hand.</p>

<p class="pindent">I picked up and swung a hammer with all
my might. . . .</p>

<p class="pindent">I cannot attempt to tell the noise we made.</p>

<p class="pindent">Perhaps our reluctance to make any noise
at all and the infinite care we had taken to
smother all sound magnified for us this sudden
breach of silence: certainly the hour, the
emptiness of the apartments and the style
and proportions of the building made so
many sounding-boards. Be that as it may,
had the castle been full of troops and these
been suddenly summoned by trumpet and
tuck of drum I do not think the uproar could
have won to our ears.</p>

<p class="pindent">It took us, I suppose, two minutes to reduce
that lock.</p>

<p class="pindent">As Mansel wrenched it away, an iron fillet,
into which its tongues were protruding, came
also. This fillet was a false jamb, that ran
the whole length of the door and was laid
upon stone. Now that it was displaced, we
could see that the door was bolted, top and
bottom, upon the opposite side. The bolts
were shot into the stone, but, the fillet gone, we
could reach them and, with the slightest
manipulation, could draw them clear of their
sockets and open the door.</p>

<p class="pindent">I put up a hand, but Mansel caught my
arm. <span class="it">Someone was pounding upon the other
side of the door.</span></p>

<p class="pindent">Together we stared at the oak.</p>

<p class="pindent">Then came Adèle’s clear voice.</p>

<p class="pindent">“Is that you Jonah?”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Yes, dear,” said Mansel. “One moment,
and——”</p>

<p class="pindent">“<span class="it">No, no</span>,” cried Adèle. “<span class="it">Stop. Stay where
you are. ‘Rose’ Noble’s here by my side. And
he says if you open that door you’ll lose your
match.</span>”</p>

<div><h1 id="chVI">CHAPTER VI<br /><span style="font-size:smaller"> THE LOVE OF A LADY</span></h1></div>

<p class="pindent">Never, I suppose were hopes lifted so
high one moment and dashed so low the
next.</p>

<p class="pindent">Indeed, I was so much confounded by the
sudden overthrow of our fortune that I stood
staring at the door, as a clown at a strange
fish, and when I turned to Hanbury, who
had come across to our side, he was wearing
the blank expression of a player of chess who,
having but two moves to make to win his
match, suddenly perceives that his opponent
has but one.</p>

<p class="pindent">And this shows how fine was the stuff of
which Mansel was made, for, though our dismay
was nothing to the bitterness which must
have been his, beyond raising his eyebrows
he gave no manner of sign that he was put
out, and, what was far more, he had a plan
in an instant to save the game.</p>

<p class="pindent">Before he could answer Adèle, we heard the
clatter of footsteps and, then, ‘Rose’ Noble’s
deep voice speaking Casemate and Bunch by
name.</p>

<p class="pindent">Under cover of this distraction, Mansel
caught us each by an arm.</p>

<p class="pindent">“Time to be gone,” he whispered. “We’ve
shot our bolt. Leave everything and clear
out. <span class="it">I’m going to stay.</span> Food and dry clothes
to me by the waterfall cord. And paper and
pencil. So long.”</p>

<p class="pindent">Before we could speak, he had returned to
the door.</p>

<p class="pindent">“My dear Adèle,” he said, “I’m delighted
to hear your voice.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Same here,” said Adèle, cheerfully.</p>

<p class="pindent">‘Rose’ Noble laughed.</p>

<p class="pindent">“ ‘Journeys end in lovers meeting,’ ” he
said.</p>

<p class="pindent">“How’s Boy?” said Adèle.</p>

<p class="pindent">“None too bad,” said Mansel. “A bit hot
and bothered you know, till we’d run you to
earth: but that was natural. His leg’s just
splendid.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“How much does he know?” said ‘Rose’
Noble.</p>

<p class="pindent">That was as much as I heard, for Hanbury
was at the window, and I had something to
say before he was gone.</p>

<p class="pindent">“I stay with Mansel,” I said. “Give
me your pistol and torch.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“I can’t leave you here,” said George.</p>

<p class="pindent">“Quick,” said I. “We’ll argue another
time.”</p>

<p class="pindent">With that, I put my hands in his pockets
and helped myself. There was a bunch of
wedges we had not used. These I took, and
his torch. He gave me his pistol unwillingly
enough. Then he shook his head and went
up the rope.</p>

<p class="pindent">High words were flying as I swung
myself into the rain. ‘Rose’ Noble was
clearly angry, and I heard Adèle’s scornful
laugh. . . .</p>

<p class="pindent">As soon as my feet touched the terrace, I
made my way to the water and scrambled
under the door. I had a vile wet passage,
but I managed to save both pistols and
Hanbury’s torch. The archway was dank
and draughty, so I lost no time in finding the
little staircase that served the trap-door and,
when I had found it, in climbing as high as
I could. Here I was out of the wind and
might have been snug; but my clothes were
wringing wet and that made the stone seem
cold.</p>

<p class="pindent">I was quite sure that this was the spot at
which Mansel proposed to be hid—for that,
of course, was his plan. He intended ‘Rose’
Noble to think that he had withdrawn, and,
presently taking the monster off his guard,
to strike again.</p>

<p class="pindent">And here I may say that I found his plan
very good. To release Adèle might be beyond
our power, but our luck would be out indeed,
if we could not kill ‘Rose’ Noble before two
days were gone by, and his death, as I have
said, would break the enemy’s back.</p>

<p class="pindent">What Mansel would say, when he found
me, I could not tell. He did not like disobedience:
but for one man to stay alone in
such an enemy’s camp seemed to me out of
reason, and I hoped very much that he would
share my view.</p>

<p class="pindent">I had not long to wait.</p>

<p class="pindent">A sudden quickening of the rustle the water
made told me that Mansel was passing
beneath the door, and an instant later I
heard his foot on the stair.</p>

<p class="pindent">“Mansel,” I breathed. “Chandos speaking.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Ah, William,” said he: and that was all.</p>

<p class="pindent">He sat down on the step below mine and
put his head in his hands.</p>

<p class="pindent">After a little he spoke.</p>

<p class="pindent">“I didn’t dare stay. ‘Rose’ Noble was
bound to exploit a chance like that. You
see, without an audience there’s no point in
doing her harm: but with me, so to speak,
looking on. . . . He struck her, Chandos.
And, because she wouldn’t cry out, he struck
her again. . . . And so it seemed best to
go. . . . Oh, my God,” he cried suddenly,
“there are times when I’d take your offer and
buy her out.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“It’s always open,” I said.</p>

<p class="pindent">“I know,” he said, “I know.”</p>

<p class="pindent">For a long time we sat in silence. Then he
gave a short sigh.</p>

<p class="pindent">“Drink some of this,” he whispered, and
put a flask into my hand.</p>

<p class="pindent">It was brandy and did us both good, for
our state of mind and of body was wretched
enough.</p>

<p class="pindent">Presently he spoke again.</p>

<p class="pindent">“No,” he said. “No. What’s the good
of buying a broken heart? We’ve got to
beat ‘Rose’ Noble: there’s no other way.
But it’s a dreadful business to have to go so
slow.”</p>

<p class="pindent">That was a true saying.</p>

<p class="pindent">Indeed, the next sixteen hours were the
worst I have ever spent. I can never remember
them without a shudder, and to our
restless senses they seemed more like sixteen
days. Without cause we dared not emerge:
no cause presented itself. The rain fell down
without ceasing, and, though we took it in
turns to watch from the archway, no one
appeared in the courtyard, or, so far as I
know, visited the terrace upon the opposite
side. Command the terrace we could not,
unless we lay down in the channel below the
door: and that was dangerous, for the noise
which the water made embarrassed the ear,
and we might well have been noticed before we
had time to withdraw. There was, however,
the keyhole of the great door itself, and,
whilst we were listening there, I do not think
one could have passed without our hearing
his steps.</p>

<p class="pindent">We saw the dawn come in and the day
draw to its close: we heard the drip of the
rain and the sigh of the wind: and that was
all.</p>

<p class="pindent">One thing only we decided, for you cannot
make bricks without straw, and we had no
data with which to make any plan. We
determined that, when night had fallen and we
dared pull up the rope, we would enter the
King’s Closet and eat and rest in such
comfort as that room could give. The risk
of discovery was small, and, if we could not
take shelter which would allow us to sleep,
we should, we knew, be unfitted to strike
when the moment came. I do not mean that
when the day was over we had no resistance
left, for we were both very strong and had
suffered adversity far more exacting than
this; but we knew that to rob ‘Rose’ Noble
the eye must be clear, the hand unearthly
swift and all the senses at the very top of their
pitch or, as the saying is, a man might as well
go home.</p>

<p class="pindent">At last the daylight faded, and the rain
ceased.</p>

<p class="pindent">When it was quite dark, we laid hold of
the rope in the channel and took the strain.
To our delight it was loaded, so, bidding me
stay where I was and haul it in, Mansel
crawled under the door and made for the
balustrade beneath which the waterfall leapt.</p>

<p class="pindent">At last I felt a check, and, very soon after,
a package done up in oiled silk was thrust
under the door.</p>

<p class="pindent">Two minutes later we were in the King’s
Closet, with good, oak boards beneath us
and wedges under the doors.</p>

<p class="pindent">As well as changes of clothing, Hanbury
had sent us a blanket sewn into the shape of
a bag: this was just what we needed and, with
the square of carpet, promised a good night’s
rest.</p>

<p class="pindent">But first there was work to be done.</p>

<p class="pindent">There was food enough for five, and, what
was better still, a bottle of excellent brandy
by way of drink.</p>

<p class="pindent">We changed and made our meal by the
shaded light of a torch, for to do such things
in the dark without making a sound required
more time and care than we were prepared to
expend: and, when we had done, Mansel
wrote out the first message which we were to
send to George:</p>

<div class="blockquote">

<p class="line" style="text-align:left;margin-left:0em;"><span class="it">George.</span></p>

<p class="pindent"><span class="it">Send up Adèle’s dressing-case.</span></p>

<p class="pindent">(<span class="it">a</span>) <span class="it">Is there any reason why we should not
descend by this rope at any time?</span></p>

<p class="pindent">(<span class="it">b</span>) <span class="it">Where is the cover nearest to the foot of
the cliff and what shape does it take?</span></p>

</div>

<p class="pindent">I wished to go out this time, but Mansel
would not consent. Whilst, therefore, I let
down the message, he changed again into
his dripping clothes, and, as soon as I
took the strain, he returned to the balustrade.
. . .</p>

<p class="pindent">Hanbury’s answer was clear.</p>

<div class="blockquote">

<p class="pindent">(<span class="it">a</span>) <span class="it">No reason at all. We have lengthened
the rope, so that it reaches the ground. By day
the last forty feet will be concealed in a bush.
No one could ever climb up without help from
above.</span></p>

<p class="pindent">(<span class="it">b</span>) <span class="it">Beechwoods two furlongs north-east. Unless
you direct otherwise, one car will be always
concealed within sound of the drive, and one
at the foot of this cliff from nightfall till
dawn.</span></p>

</div>

<p class="pindent">As soon as he had changed, Mansel wrote
out his reply.</p>

<div class="blockquote">

<p class="pindent"><span class="it">Good. Visit the beechwoods twice daily at
ten and three. Don’t wait any longer to-night.
Send Carson and another to Poganec with the
enclosed note instead.</span></p>

</div>

<p class="pindent">The note was addressed to Captain Pleydell
and was very short.</p>

<div class="blockquote">

<p class="pindent"><span class="it">I have spoken with Adèle. She is very
cheerful and seems to be in excellent health.</span></p>

</div>

<p class="pindent">These dispatches I sent alone, and, when
they were gone, we finally closed the trap-door
and getting into our blanket, lay down on
the carpet to sleep.</p>

<p class="pindent">Whether Mansel rested I know not, but I
slept like the dead. The Closet was full of
pale light when I awoke, and Mansel was at
the window, with his eyes on the east.</p>

<hr class="tbk" />

<p class="pindent">It was ten o’clock in the morning, the
weather was very fine, and I had my ear to the
keyhole of the archway door, when I heard a
footstep upon the terrace beyond.</p>

<p class="pindent">As I turned to summon Mansel, I felt his
hand on my arm.</p>

<p class="pindent">“Casemate is with her,” he said.</p>

<p class="pindent">The next instant he was down in the channel
and was peering under the door.</p>

<p class="pindent">Slowly Adèle and her warder passed into
and out of my view. Her hair had been
rudely shorn to the shape of her head, and
about her shoulders she wore a rag of a shawl.</p>

<p class="pindent">Then I heard Casemate’s voice.</p>

<p class="pindent">“—— this sunshine,” he said. “Don’t
you want a hat on your curls?”</p>

<p class="pindent">“No,” said Adèle.</p>

<p class="pindent">“Well, I guess I do,” said Casemate.
“You carry on, an’ move. You’re not here
to wave to Charlie: you’re here for exercise.
An’ ‘Rose’ is red-hot this morning, so I
shouldn’t tread on his toes.”</p>

<p class="pindent">With that, he left her.</p>

<p class="pindent">“Pull up the rope,” said Mansel; and,
before I could think, he was gone.</p>

<p class="pindent">I was taken so much by surprise that,
though I did his bidding, I could hardly
believe that our attempt at rescue was fairly
begun. Casemate was seeking his hat: that,
before he returned, we should be able to let
down Adèle to safety seemed to me a chance
in a thousand, while, if we were caught in
the act, her life would be in great peril and
our present enterprise wrecked. I found it
unlike Mansel to take such a risk and
was wondering whether for once his zeal had
outrun his discretion, when Adèle’s face
appeared in the channel almost between my
legs.</p>

<p class="pindent">In a flash I had her under the arms, and
had drawn her clear of the door and lifted
her up. Mansel followed at once, and, whilst
I worked like a madman to pull up the rope,
he spoke to Adèle.</p>

<p class="pindent">“If we can do it in time, we shall let you
down the face of the cliff. The moment
you’re down, unfasten the rope and run for
your life to the beechwoods that lie north-east.”
He pointed the direction with his
arm. “Over there. George or Carson will
be there with one of the Rolls. Tell them to
drive you——”</p>

<p class="pindent">He stopped short there, and, after listening
intently, caught my wrist.</p>

<p class="pindent">“Let go the rope,” he breathed. . . .</p>

<p class="pindent">For a moment I could hear nothing. Then
came ‘Rose’ Noble’s voice.</p>

<p class="pindent">“Hat be damned. I said ‘See that she
moves.’ By ——, that’s clean enough talking.
D’you think——”</p>

<p class="pindent">And there, I suppose, he saw that Adèle was
gone. . . .</p>

<p class="pindent">For a moment there was dead silence.
Then came a rush of steps to the balustrade.</p>

<p class="pindent">Adèle and Mansel and I stood still as death,
while the rope fled steadily back the way
it had come. That ‘Rose’ Noble must now
observe it seemed almost certain: <span class="it">whether
he would see that it was moving we could not
tell</span>.</p>

<p class="pindent">A sudden roar from the terrace made my
heart stand still.</p>

<p class="pindent">“By ——, she’s gone,” screeched ‘Rose’
Noble. “Look at that —— cord.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“She’s never had time,” cried Casemate.
“I only——”</p>

<p class="pindent">“<span class="it">Time?</span>” howled ‘Rose’ Noble. “<span class="it">Time?</span>
It’s only your white-livered sort that
wants time to break out of hell. Bunch!
Punter!” he yelled. “Turn out the ——
car. Go and help them, you ——. And if
we don’t take her at the foot of this blasted
rock I’ll twist your block off your body with
my bare hands.”</p>

<p class="pindent">Before the threat was issued, Casemate was
gone. I could hear him shouting for Bunch
like a man possessed.</p>

<p class="pindent">The rope was now back in the channel and
lying as snug and as taut as though it had
never been touched.</p>

<p class="pindent">Mansel was speaking low.</p>

<p class="pindent">“Sit down on the step, dear, and let me
pull off your boots.”</p>

<p class="pindent">Adèle obeyed him at once. She was, of
course, drenched to the skin.</p>

<p class="pindent">“Now go up these stairs: they’ll bring
you into a room. Your dressing-case is there.
Change your clothes as quickly as ever you
can. The instant you’re through, come
back.”</p>

<p class="pindent">Here came voices from the courtyard, and
almost at once I saw figures about the car.
This was in the midst of the archway that
ushered the castle gate and directly opposed
to that beneath which we stood. The car
was standing, as we were, in deep shadow,
but the courtyard was full of light. It
follows that I could not distinguish whose the
figures might be but, after a little, I heard
‘Rose’ Noble’s voice. I suppose the car
was unready, for her engine would not start
for all the frenzy with which someone was
swinging the shaft. Another—Casemate, I
think—was clumsily dashing spirit into the
tank. . . .</p>

<p class="pindent">At last with a stammer and then with a
sudden roar the engine came to life: and
that put an end to my observation, for the
noise was deafening and a dense smoke from
the exhaust screened any movement that
was made.</p>

<p class="pindent">Suddenly the gate was opened, and the car
shot out.</p>

<p class="pindent">Mansel’s hand touched my shoulder.</p>

<p class="pindent">“Can you see who’s shutting the gate?”</p>

<p class="pindent">“I think it’s the woman,” said I. “Yes,
I can see her skirt.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Good,” said Mansel. “And now I think
we’ll follow. But I hope the others won’t
try to get in their way. Could you tell at all
how many got into the car?”</p>

<p class="pindent">I shook my head.</p>

<p class="pindent">“ ‘Rose’ Noble?”</p>

<p class="pindent">“I assume so,” said I. “I certainly heard
his voice. Besides, you heard what he
said.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“I don’t count what he says,” said Mansel.
“If he saw that the rope was moving, I’ve
played my cards wrong.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“What else could you have done?”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Followed Casemate and met him,” said
Mansel.</p>

<p class="pindent">“But you couldn’t have known——”</p>

<p class="pindent">Mansel smiled.</p>

<p class="pindent">“You never do—at cards,” he said.</p>

<p class="pindent">Adèle’s voice came from the stairway.</p>

<p class="pindent">“I’m ready, Jonah,” she said.</p>

<p class="pindent">A moment later we were in the King’s
Closet.</p>

<p class="pindent">With the utmost caution Mansel opened the
door: then he signed to Adèle to follow. I
caught up her dressing-case and brought up
the rear.</p>

<p class="pindent">The King’s Bedchamber was empty.</p>

<p class="pindent">Like thieves in the night, we stole across
its floor and into the Dining-room.</p>

<p class="pindent">A moment later we entered the antechamber.</p>

<p class="pindent">The door was as we had left it; but the
hammers and chisels were gone, and the
window was shut.</p>

<p class="pindent">With a little manipulation I had the upper
bolt free and wheedled it clear of the jamb.
The lower, however, resisted, and Mansel, who
was down on his knees, was able neither to
turn it nor thrust it back.</p>

<p class="pindent">At length he rose to his feet.</p>

<p class="pindent">“Are the ropes there, Chandos?”</p>

<p class="pindent">I stepped to the window, but the ropes
were gone.</p>

<p class="pindent">When I told him, he frowned.</p>

<p class="pindent">Then he wedged the door, so that it could
not be opened from the opposite side, and
rose to his feet.</p>

<p class="pindent">“Come,” he said, turning. “We must
try the other end of the suite.”</p>

<p class="pindent">So we came back to the Closet and, passing
through the Queen’s rooms, entered the other
antechamber which the bookseller’s guide
had shown us that we might expect.</p>

<p class="pindent">There was now before us a door like that
we had left, which gave, no doubt, into the
other ‘gallery of stone.’</p>

<p class="pindent">And this door also was fast.</p>

<p class="pindent">I confess that here the sweat ran over my
face.</p>

<p class="pindent">To be within hail of freedom, to have the
prison to ourselves, to have come so far,
only to be prevented, as rabbits left in a
hutch, was almost more than I could bear.</p>

<p class="pindent">Mansel took a wedge from his pocket and
thrust it under the door. Then he led us
back to the Closet and down the winding
stair.</p>

<p class="pindent">“Wait here,” he said. “It’s no good our
all getting wet. I’m going through the door
at the head of the terrace steps. That
should be open, all right. And then, if I
can, I’ll draw that blasted bolt.”</p>

<p class="pindent">With that, he was gone.</p>

<p class="pindent">I clapped my ear to the keyhole, and
Adèle’s hand stole into mine. I remember
thinking that she was seeking comfort, but
now I know that she would have comforted
me. I was trembling so much that I could
not keep my head steady against the
wood.</p>

<p class="pindent">Then I heard the sound which I dreaded,
and trembled no more.</p>

<p class="pindent"><span class="it">I heard Mansel go by with a rush, to try the
opposite door.</span></p>

<p class="pindent">He was back in an instant.</p>

<p class="pindent">As I helped him out of the channel—</p>

<p class="pindent">“I should have kept a chisel,” he said.
“But, chisel or no, we must try that bolt
again.”</p>

<p class="pindent">Adèle laid a hand on his arm.</p>

<p class="pindent">“You’ll die of cold, dear,” she said.
“Have you dry things?”</p>

<p class="pindent">“We mustn’t wait, my lady. I——”</p>

<p class="pindent">“I won’t stir from here,” said Adèle,
“until you’ve changed.”</p>

<p class="pindent">Mansel smiled and was gone.</p>

<p class="pindent">There were dry clothes in the Closet, for
Hanbury had had the foresight to send us
two changes apiece.</p>

<p class="pindent">Adèle had me by the coat.</p>

<p class="pindent">“Oh, why did you stay?” she breathed.
“If ‘Rose’ Noble gets him, he’ll break him
by eighths of an inch. I never knew what
hate was, till I heard that terrible man.
And he’s got it in for Jonah from bottom to
top. I’m nothing—a lever at most . . . one
of the levers of the rack. It’s only the
money that can save him. Remember that.
Dying men can’t sign cheques. But if ever
the cheque is signed. . . . How much is he
asking?”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Five hundred thousand,” said I.</p>

<p class="pindent">I felt her fingers tighten upon my coat.</p>

<p class="pindent">“He’d take a hundred thousand—<span class="it">with
Jonah thrown in</span>. I’ve heard him say so—not
once, but fifty times. I tell you——”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Chandos,” said Mansel from the stairway,
“pull in that rope. Cut a length of a hundred
yards. If we can’t shift that bolt . . .”</p>

<p class="pindent">What else he said I never knew, for the
moment I handled the cord, <span class="it">I knew that it
had been severed a few feet away</span>.</p>

<p class="pindent">I think I must have exclaimed, for Mansel
called sharply to know what the matter
might be.</p>

<p class="pindent">“It’s cut already,” said I, and, with that,
I pulled in what was left and proved my
words.</p>

<p class="pindent">With his back to Adèle, Mansel looked me
full in the eyes.</p>

<p class="pindent">“I was right—just now,” he said quietly.
“I ought to have led out Clubs.” Then he
turned to Adèle. “Come, my lady,” he said,
“and we’ll have another whack at that
door.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Tell me, Jonah,” said Adèle.</p>

<p class="pindent">“My dear,” said Mansel, “ ‘Rose’ Noble’s
a careful man. He locks the door before the
horse is stolen, but he takes the precaution
of locking it afterwards, too. Never mind.
We’ll get out somehow.”</p>

<p class="pindent">When we entered the Closet, he picked up
the bottle of brandy and poured some into
a glass.</p>

<p class="pindent">“The stirrup cup,” he said, smiling, and
gave the glass to Adèle.</p>

<p class="pindent">Then he and I drank quickly.</p>

<p class="pindent">A moment later we were crossing the
Bedchamber’s floor.</p>

<p class="pindent">As we entered the Dining-room——</p>

<p class="pindent">“That’ll do,” said ‘Rose’ Noble.</p>

<p class="pindent">There was nothing to be said or done.</p>

<p class="pindent">The fellow was sitting in a chair at the
head of the table, with his elbows upon the
board and a pistol in either hand.</p>

<hr class="tbk" />

<p class="pindent">Never before or since have I felt so far
out of my depth.</p>

<p class="pindent">A moment before, we had had the suite to
ourselves: the entrance doors had been
wedged and as good as barred: no sound of
any sort had come to our vigilant ears. Yet
our movements had been closely observed,
our intentions had been accurately gauged,
and our enemy had been able to snare us
with the effortless ease of a nurse outwitting
a child.</p>

<p class="pindent">“Keep your hands up,” said ‘Rose’
Noble, “and come and sit down—you two
twopenny squirts to right and left, and the
goods facing me. Move.”</p>

<p class="pindent">Slowly we did as he said.</p>

<p class="pindent">“Now put your palms on the table.”
Again we obeyed.</p>

<p class="pindent">“And if anyone wants to die, they’ve only
to move a hand.”</p>

<p class="pindent">Desperately I tried to marshal my wits,
for if ever a clear head was needed to save
the game, it was needed now; but my brain
was ever wayward, and I remember thinking
how strange a picture we made and how
much astonished King Maximilian would have
been, could he have viewed such a company
gracing his private board.</p>

<p class="pindent">Before me Mansel sat easily, leaning back
in his chair. His hair was wet and rumpled,
and he wore no collar or tie. His light,
tweed coat, turned up about his neck, became
him admirably and a quiet smile was lighting
his handsome face. On my left Adèle sat
upright: her colour was high and, because
of her short, crisp hair, she looked like some
old picture of a beautiful boy. She was
wearing a fawn-coloured dress, and white
silk was edging her delicate wrists and throat.
Laid upon the smooth, dark oak, her lovely
hands were unforgettable. And on my right,
deep in the King’s great chair, sat ‘Rose’
Noble. One pistol lay before him: the
other was in his right hand. His great bulk
was loose as ever, and his huge face grey and
flabby as when I had seen him first. He
stayed so still that he might have been some
gross idol, carved out of stone. Their lids,
as usual, were almost hiding his eyes, and a
faint smile was hanging upon the cruellest
mouth that I have ever seen.</p>

<p class="pindent">For a long time he held his peace, but at
length he gave a smooth laugh.</p>

<p class="pindent">“ ‘Stone walls do not a prison make,’ ” he
said softly. “An’ I guess you three could
heckle the guy that wrote that.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“My favourite maxim,” said Mansel
pleasantly. He looked across the table at
me. “William,” he said, “we must do better
next time. There’s a door behind our host—in
the panelling. There’s probably one in
each room. They open into a passage
which——”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Quite so,” drawled ‘Rose’ Noble.
“Quite so. I call it ‘The Listening Post.’ ”
His eyelids flickered, and the blood came into
my face. “And now, perhaps, you’ll let
the geography stew and listen to me. I
wasn’t at Oxford College, but I guess the
notes I’ve sent you were plain enough.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“As plain as my replies,” said Mansel.</p>

<p class="pindent">“I didn’t hear them,” said ‘Rose’ Noble.
“But, now we’re so snug, maybe you’ll say
them again.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“The first thing,” said Mansel at once,
“is to clear the air. This lady may be your
prisoner, but I am not. One doesn’t imprison
one’s broker if one happens to want some
funds. I mean, that’s elementary.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Maybe it is,” said ‘Rose’ Noble. “One
don’t spoil his right hand either. But I’ve
known a guy that kicked when he had two
lights, as mild as his mother’s milk when he
had but one.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“I daresay you have,” said Mansel. “It
takes some people that way.”</p>

<p class="pindent">‘Rose’ Noble moistened his lips.</p>

<p class="pindent">“I’m not out to break you,” he said.
“It’s the goods that’ll get the rough.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Are getting the rough,” said Mansel.
“And there again I advise you to watch your
step. ‘Perishable goods’ have a market:
but ‘damaged goods’ make a very different
price.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“They’re not damaged—yet,” said ‘Rose’
Noble. “And I’m still waiting for a bid.”</p>

<p class="pindent">Mansel raised his eyebrows.</p>

<p class="pindent">“A few months ago,” he said quietly,
“you stole some papers of mine. Give me
them back, and I’ll pay you a hundred
pounds and hold my tongue.”</p>

<p class="pindent">I was aghast at his boldness and fully
expected a truly dreadful outburst by way of
reply. But none came: and after a little
silence I breathed again.</p>

<p class="pindent">‘Rose’ Noble lifted his lids and looked at
Adèle.</p>

<p class="pindent">I cannot describe the awfulness of his gaze.
Hatred, malice and all uncharitableness
burned in those terrible orbs. Themselves
monstrous, their message was like unto them,
and before its beastly menace my blood ran
cold.</p>

<p class="pindent">“You hear?” he said grimly. “You’re
pretty enough to fool round, but, when it’s
a question of paying, your gentleman-friend
gets off.”</p>

<p class="pindent">Adèle flushed under his tongue.</p>

<p class="pindent">“It’s never been a question of paying,”
she said.</p>

<p class="pindent">“Big words,” said ‘Rose’ Noble. “But
they won’t pull you out of this mess. Your
health and your name’s on the counter:
and if you fancy either, you’d better trouble
Big Willie to open his purse.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“My name?” said Adèle, frowning.</p>

<p class="pindent">“Your name,” said ‘Rose’ Noble softly.
“You see, I’m not selling to your husband.
I’m selling to the man next door.”</p>

<p class="pindent">Adèle’s colour came and went. She looked
round swiftly.</p>

<p class="pindent">Then——</p>

<p class="pindent">“You mean——”</p>

<p class="pindent">“That I have not asked your husband to
buy you back. That I have ignored his
existence from first to last. That he’s all
sure and grateful that Big Willie’s hoeing his
row. <span class="it">That Big Willie daren’t undeceive him
. . . daren’t so much as breathe my name—for
fear of its putting ideas into his innocent
head.</span>”</p>

<p class="pindent">The brutal accuracy of this saying was to
me like a buffet which makes the head sing
again: and my brain seemed suddenly pygmy
beside that of this terrible man.</p>

<p class="pindent">Adèle had gone very pale.</p>

<p class="pindent">“You mistake us,” she said coldly. “Our
understanding——”</p>

<p class="pindent">“So I guess,” said ‘Rose’ Noble, as
though she had not opened her mouth,
“your pretty name is as much for sale as
your health. Of course, if it isn’t bought
in, your husband can have it back. But it’s
not every fool, by ——, that’ll pick up a
rotten rose.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“I agree,” said Mansel. “In fact, all
you say would be very much to the point,
if I hadn’t told Captain Pleydell that I was
in love with his wife.”</p>

<p class="pindent">Very slowly the blood flowed into Adèle’s
sweet face. She did not look at Mansel, and
her eyes which were resting on ‘Rose’ Noble,
never moved. But, after a little, I saw that
their focus had changed and that, though
she was looking before her, she did not see,
because she was lost in thought.</p>

<p class="pindent">‘Rose’ Noble gave a thick laugh.</p>

<p class="pindent">“I see,” he said smoothly. “And, of
course, he couldn’t kick you—because of his
leg. Well, well . . . And if you think that
chokes me, you’re nursing the dirty end. I
guess I’ve a sleeve full of trumps—but if
you don’t want to see them you know the
way.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“I’m afraid you’ll have to play them,”
said Mansel. “You see, we don’t mind
paying, but it wouldn’t amuse the lady to
know she’d been bought.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“That’s right,” said Adèle.</p>

<p class="pindent">‘Rose’ Noble sat back in his chair.</p>

<p class="pindent">“You mean she don’t care to be mortgaged
outside your arms?”</p>

<p class="pindent">“I didn’t say that,” said Mansel.</p>

<p class="pindent">“I’ll take it as read. I don’t move
around on your dunghills, but I guess a
woman’s a woman whether she’s warming
her maid or selling fish. This man can bend
her fingers, and that one can go to hell.
‘With love from little Willie’ don’t happen
to suit her book. Maybe it don’t suit yours.
And so I’ll help you out.” He leaned
suddenly forward. “Be here in this room
yourself a week from to-day, with two
hundred and fifty thousand in Bank of
England notes, and I’ll let the three of
you go.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Nothing doing,” said Adèle swiftly.</p>

<p class="pindent">“I am not prepared,” said Mansel, “to
continue to talk this over while Mrs. Pleydell
sits there.”</p>

<p class="pindent">‘Rose’ Noble’s eyes narrowed.</p>

<p class="pindent">“If you don’t like the rules,” he drawled,
“you —— well needn’t play. I’ve picked
my words so far, but run me up and I’m not
going to cramp my tongue. If you’re bunched
round my table, God didn’t put you there.
You horned right into this parlour, and, if
you don’t like the eats, I guess you can
swallow them whole.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“I repeat my request,” said Mansel. “I
decline to——”</p>

<p class="pindent">“I don’t fancy that verb,” snapped ‘Rose’
Noble, using a savage oath. “You may feel
ugly, but I’ve the right end of the gun. And
now try and get me, you ——. I’m running
this —— party from the soup to the pineapple’s
bush. If you wanted a Bible reading,
you’ve come the wrong day of the week.
We’re talking business this morning. It
mayn’t smell as sweet as lipsalve, but, if I
find your linen dirty, I reckon you made it
foul.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“I repeat my request,” said Mansel
steadily.</p>

<p class="pindent">‘Rose’ Noble sucked in his breath. Then
he opened his blazing eyes.</p>

<p class="pindent">“Then finish,” he said, “you ——. You
say you’ve told her husband you want his
wife. I’ll give you some more to tell him,
next time you meet. So far she’s lived
alone in her private suite. Bedroom and
bathroom adjoining, as tight as you please.
Now we’ll cut out the bathroom, sonny, and
she’ll share——”</p>

<p class="pindent">“I decline to——”</p>

<p class="pindent">With a roar ‘Rose’ Noble flung forward,
and Mansel’s bare hands shot out. The left
struck aside the pistol, as ‘Rose’ Noble
fired: the right hit the beast on his mouth
and knocked him into his chair. But for
this, he must have gone down before the
weight of the blow, but the chair was massive
and, though it rocked for a moment, it held
him up.</p>

<p class="pindent">The sudden support saved him.</p>

<p class="pindent">As I snatched at the second pistol, he
swept it off the board, but the movement
disordered his aim, and his second bullet
went wide.</p>

<p class="pindent">“Into the bedroom,” yelled Mansel, hurling
an oaken footstool, with all his might.</p>

<p class="pindent">As I hustled Adèle through the doorway,
I heard a screech of pain and a third report.
Then Mansel whipped into the room and I
slammed the door.</p>

<p class="pindent">“Quick! Wedge the doors,” breathed
Mansel.</p>

<p class="pindent">Now that we suspected their presence, the
doors in the panelling were easy to find,
and, since they opened inwards, before thirty
seconds had passed the Closet and Bedchamber
had been secured.</p>

<p class="pindent">As I drove the last wedge, Mansel leaned
his back to the wall and covered his eyes.</p>

<p class="pindent">“That chair,” he said brokenly. “That
chair. It’s enough to break a man’s heart.
I’d no time to hit him square, but I never so
much as dreamed that that damned chair
wouldn’t go. If it had . . .”</p>

<p class="pindent">Adèle put her arms round his neck, drew
down his head to hers and kissed his
lips.</p>

<p class="pindent">“My darling,” she said quietly, “no man
could have done so well.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“By God, that’s true,” I cried.</p>

<p class="pindent">“Oh, Adèle,” said Mansel simply, “I do
love you so much.”</p>

<p class="pindent">Then his arms went about her, and she hid
her face in his coat.</p>

<hr class="tbk" />

<p class="pindent">Sitting on the floor of the Closet, I summed
up our circumstances as best I could.</p>

<p class="pindent">For the moment, Adèle was safe. What
remained of the food which we had drawn up
the cliff would last us with care for two days.
We had three pistols, each holding seven
rounds, and we had the run of two rooms
and a way down into the archway—for what
it was worth. That we could hold this
position I had no doubt: indeed, it seemed
most unlikely that ‘Rose’ Noble would make
an attack, for, unless we three could break
out or Hanbury and the servants could
break in, we must in three or four days fall
into his hands.</p>

<p class="pindent">For us to break out would be extremely
hard: we had long ago perceived that the
two ‘galleries of stone’ were the keys to the
royal suite, and that these were joined by a
passage meant that we were surrounded by
a guard-room which two men could hold
against twenty, the inside of which we had
not so much as seen.</p>

<p class="pindent">With Hanbury and the servants we were
no longer in touch. Our line of communication
had been cut, and, even though George
should decide to attempt our relief, I could
not see that four men could bring this about.
Six had been none too many two nights ago,
and for four to repeat an assault which had
only succeeded because it was a surprise
seemed to me a hopeless adventure.</p>

<p class="pindent">I found it hard not to believe that Fortune
had taken her stand on the enemy’s side.
Had we known of the doors in the panelling,
not once but five times over should we have
won our match: without that precious
knowledge, two nights ago we had all but
rescued Adèle: if ‘Rose’ Noble had not
met Casemate in search of his hat, Adèle
by now might well have been thirty miles
off: but for the weight of the chair, ‘Rose’
Noble must have been dead ten minutes ago.
This last was a bitter thought. Looking
back, I perceived how Mansel had made the
brute angry in order to make him move and
had actually lured the master into the way
of a fool, how he had ignored gross insult
and let Adèle suffer in silence to gain his end,
and how only the fear of depriving Adèle
of his service had made him break off a battle
which he might well have won.</p>

<p class="pindent">Then I fell to considering Mansel and
Adèle and their love—for now I was sure that
she loved him as he did her—and what ever
would be the outcome of an affair at once so
passionate and so much out of joint.</p>

<p class="pindent">God knows I did not blame them: I was
rather exulting to see two such great hearts
at one. It was the future that troubled
me, the reckoning that would have to be
paid.</p>

<p class="pindent">And whilst I was in the midst of this
reflection, the two came into the Closet,
with shining eyes.</p>

<p class="pindent">I got to my feet, and Adèle gave me her
hand.</p>

<p class="pindent">I kissed it naturally.</p>

<p class="pindent">“William,” she said, “I think I have the
finest lover in the world.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“You have, indeed,” said I, gravely.</p>

<p class="pindent">“William the Faithful,” said Mansel and
laughed like a boy. He stepped to the trap.
“And now,” said he, “I’m going to spy out
the land. Don’t talk too loud, you two, and
stay in the doorway, please, so that you can
watch both rooms.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Very good,” said I, and went to my post
at once.</p>

<p class="pindent">When Mansel was gone, Adèle came to my
side.</p>

<p class="pindent">“Sit down, William,” she said. “I want
you to know how I feel.”</p>

<p class="pindent">We sat down on the floor, like two children,
and Adèle leaned her head against the wall
and slid her slight arm through mine.</p>

<p class="pindent">“I’m in love with Jonah,” she said. “I
think I’ve loved him for years, but I never
knew. And then, when I first saw ‘Rose’
Noble and Jute pulled me off the mare, I
remembered our talk in the forest and I
knew what they wanted me for. They
meant to hurt Jonah through me. That
meant that Jonah loved me: and then, all
of a sudden, I knew that I loved him. I was
terribly worried at first, because it seemed so
awful to be in love with anyone other than
Boy. And then I came to see that, so long
as nobody knew, no harm would be done.
And I made up my mind that no one should
ever know—not even Jonah himself . . .
Well, you saw me break down. You saw me
kiss him and put my arms round his neck. I
suppose I shouldn’t have done it, but I’m so
thankful I did. I want you to know that,
William. And Jonah’s so happy, too. We’ve
had it all out and we both of us feel the
same. You see, we’re locked up here, in a
sort of No Man’s Land that lies between life
and death. If we die—well, that’s the end.
If we live, then we go back. But we can’t
tell which it will be, and, so long as we’re
in that land, we’re going to love each other
with all our heart.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“But, oh, Adèle,” said I, “what about
going back?”</p>

<p class="pindent">A very soft light came into her wonderful
eyes.</p>

<p class="pindent">“You can’t take away memory,” she said.
“That we shall have for ever, like a star
that’s always in the sky. I’m not seeking
to justify myself. I know I’m another man’s
wife. But I don’t care, William. Nature
and Fortune have driven us into this Eden,
and I don’t think we should be human if
we didn’t help each other to pick the
flowers.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“I don’t think you would,” said I heartily.</p>

<p class="pindent">And that is the point of view I hold to-day.
I daresay it cannot be defended. I can only
say that Jonathan Mansel and Adèle were two
of a kind that I never saw before and have
never seen since. They were wise: ‘they
were lovely and pleasant in their lives’:
they were nonpareil: and, looking back, I
find it most natural that, suddenly faced
with life in the midst of death, two natures
so alike and so peerless should have comforted
each other.</p>

<p class="pindent">Adèle looked at me swiftly.</p>

<p class="pindent">“Do you mean that you understand? I
don’t think you can do that?”</p>

<p class="pindent">“I can understand enough,” said I, “to
be very glad you’re so happy.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Thank you, William,” she said. “And
please don’t feel left out. Jonah was only
saying a moment ago that you were the only
living being he didn’t mind seeing our
love.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“History repeats itself,” said I, indicating
the rooms. “The equerry doesn’t feel left
by his king and his queen.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Oh, he’s a courtier,” cried Adèle, clapping
her hands.</p>

<p class="pindent">“Don’t slander my lieutenant,” said
Mansel, putting his head through the floor.</p>

<p class="pindent">“And here’s a piece of good news.” He sank
his voice to a murmur. “The car is still
out.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Which means?” breathed Adèle.</p>

<p class="pindent">“I hope and believe it means that it’s
gone for good, that George and the servants
have got it and all or some of its crew. When
‘Rose’ Noble sent them out, he knew very
well that there was nothing to see: he
knew we were in the archway and he sent
them packing to mislead us and draw us out:
I admit he pulled that off, but, unless and
until they return, I believe he’s alone.”</p>

<p class="pindent">I suppose that I showed my excitement,
for he continued at once.</p>

<p class="pindent">“But please remember ‘Rose’ Noble’s a
host in himself. He may be single-handed,
but he’s worth ten ordinary men. And so
we must watch and wait. If only we’d
known of that passage two nights ago——”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Then,” said Adèle, “you’d never have
known that I loved you. And now, please,
I’m hungry. Will one of you give me some
food?”</p>

<p class="pindent">Mansel smiled.</p>

<p class="pindent">“Feminine influence, William, is a terrible
thing. With this girl-child round our necks,
we shall forget we’re at war.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Forget it,” said I, rising, “for half an
hour. While you two lunch, I’ll watch the
castle gate.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Very well,” said Mansel, hoisting himself
to the floor. “But keep in the shadow and
report the first sign of life. If Hanbury’s
sunk the pinnace, I don’t think what’s left
of her crew will come aboard before dark.
At least, they’ll be fools if they try. But we
can’t hang our lives on guess-work and so
we must watch. And, by the time I’ve
eaten, I may have some plan.”</p>

<p class="pindent">But he had not: neither had I.</p>

<p class="pindent">Through all that afternoon we three might
have been alone in the Castle of Gath. If
others spoke or moved, we neither saw nor
heard them, and, when the light faded, we
were still without any grounds on which to
base any belief.</p>

<p class="pindent">Of the ways of the castle Adèle knew far
less than we, for she had been brought in
blindfold and had never, before we seized
her, been beyond the ‘gallery of stone’: but,
had she been able to tell us that a tunnel
led out of the chapel to Salzburg itself, the
knowledge would not have helped us, for we
dared not use the passage, in case it was
held.</p>

<p class="pindent">What remained of the waterfall cord was
some sixty feet long, and this we had all
ready to help our escape. Could we, therefore,
have gained the roof, we could doubtless
have reached the spur; but we had no means
of ascent, and, though I essayed both
chimneys, these were built of hewn stone
and only a very small child could have made
its way up their shafts.</p>

<p class="pindent">But for Adèle, Mansel and I would have
sallied and might well, I think, have escaped.
If the passage was under fire, at least it must
be lighted by windows which overlooked the
courtyard, and we would have chanced a lot
in order to reach the gate. To such a risk,
however, we dared not expose Adèle. Here
I think we were wise. Unless he could
starve us to surrender, ‘Rose’ Noble’s hope
of ransom was gone by the board: once we
sallied, therefore, the fellow had nothing to
gain by sparing our lives—but much to lose,
for he knew very well that we would shoot
him at sight. Add to this that we had
lately enraged him as never before, and you
will see that to run such a gauntlet, with
Adèle, so to speak, in our arms, was out of
the question.</p>

<p class="pindent">At last we decided to write a message to
George and making it into a parcel, to cast
it over the cliff.</p>

<p class="pindent">So far as my memory serves me, this was
how the note ran:</p>

<div class="blockquote">

<p class="line" style="text-align:left;margin-left:0em;"><span class="it">George.</span></p>

<p class="pindent"><span class="it">The rope has been cut. We are fast in the
Closet and the Bedchamber and we have got
Adèle. There is a passage connecting the two
stone galleries and looking upon the courtyard.
You will attack to-morrow—Friday, half an
hour after dark. As before, gain the roof: go
directly to the door in the south-west tower:
guard that: then let fall three ropes to the
windows of the King’s Closet: the moment
these are in place</span>, demonstrate. <span class="it">You will
demonstrate by letting down a ladder to one of
the windows of the passage and accidentally
breaking the glass. Carefully rehearse the
demonstration, which must last one minute.
Whilst it is going on, you will take up Adèle
by one of the ropes: rush her along the roof,
lower her down to the spur and run with her
for the wood: Chandos and I will follow. Not
counting the caretakers, ‘Rose’ Noble is, I
think, alone—except for those who escaped
when you stopped the car. Work out the whole
attack with the greatest care: it must not
fail.</span></p>

</div>

<p class="pindent">We wrapped the note in oiled silk and
then in a wet coat of mine, to serve as
ballast: this we made into a parcel, and at
ten o’clock that night I hurled it over the
cliff.</p>

<p class="pindent">Neither Mansel nor I had expected to sleep
at all, for the castle gate had to be watched
as well as the doors of the chambers in which
we lay; but Adèle insisted on taking her
turn with us, so each of us slept for two
hours and watched for four.</p>

<p class="pindent">Adèle, was the first to rest, and I was the
last; and I remember how I stole up the
stairway at two o’clock, to find the rooms
full of moonlight, Adèle in the midst of the
doorway with her fair head against the
jamb, and Mansel sleeping like a child, with
her arms about him and his head in her lap.
And, when he was gone to the archway and I
would have lain alone, she would not have
it so, but made me lie down as he had and
pillow my head upon her.</p>

<hr class="tbk" />

<p class="pindent">The castle gate was not opened during the
night: and this made us certain that those
that had left with the car were in Hanbury’s
hands.</p>

<p class="pindent">We, therefore, decided to watch no more
from the archway, but only to use it as and
when we required. To this end we stopped
the keyholes of the door and the gate and
wedged a cage-grate in the channel beneath
the door, to prevent an entry by stealth
while our backs were turned.</p>

<p class="pindent">And here let me say that before it was
light we had all three bathed in the channel
and made as fair a toilet as our means would
allow. Mansel and I could do no more than
shave and make ourselves clean, but Adèle
must change her frock for one of a powder
blue, and, when we sat down to breakfast,
she was as point-device in appearance as
though she had just left her bedroom in
London Town.</p>

<p class="pindent">The day passed quietly enough, and, except
that one of us was always in the Bedchamber,
listening for any sound, we kept no particular
watch.</p>

<p class="pindent">Adèle and Mansel were happy as the day
was long. I have never seen two beings so
plainly glad of each other, so easy and
natural in their love. There was nothing
common or unclean in all their tenderness,
and, so far from embarrassing my senses,
my acquaintance with such devotion lifted
up my heart.</p>

<p class="pindent">One thing only troubled us, and that was
the absolute silence which reigned without
our doors.</p>

<p class="pindent">That ‘Rose’ Noble should make no sound
was natural enough: yet the continuous
absence of any sign of life came to insist
that we had the castle to ourselves and to
tempt us against all reason out of our lair.
This temptation we certainly resisted, but
with every hour the suggestion that we were
alone increased in strength, until, when the
evening came, we were all three unsettled
and did not know what to think. In a way
this did not matter, for, if, indeed, ‘Rose’
Noble were out of the way, our release by
Hanbury must be a simple affair: yet the
bare idea of such fortune seemed something
sinister, like the counsel of a prophet whose
eyes are not straight in his head.</p>

<p class="pindent">“The truth is,” said Mansel, “we ought
to have played his game. We shouldn’t have
made a sound for twenty-four hours. Then
he’d ’ve begun to wonder if we were gone:
and at last he’d ’ve tried to find out and
shown his hand. As it is, the positions are
reversed, and he’s fairly got us guessing—which
is just what he wants.”</p>

<p class="pindent">This was uncommon sense, but, even
whilst I agreed, I found myself supposing
that ‘Rose’ Noble was dead or gone and
finding the supposition curiously untoward.</p>

<p class="pindent">For this strange uncertainty of outlook I
have never been able to account: I am not
given to imagining vain things, or to letting
my fancy fly in the face of fact: yet, though
I was not uneasy, my mind would not come
to rest, but continually dwelled upon the
silence and the prosperous tale which it
told.</p>

<p class="pindent">At last the day was over, and dusk came in.</p>

<p class="pindent">When it was dark, we opened the Closet
windows and shut the trap-door. Then
Mansel set me at a window, with Adèle by
my side, and himself to watch the Bedchamber
until the moment should come.</p>

<p class="pindent">The night was most black and still, and
I stood leaning out into the thunderous air,
straining my ears for the rustle of a rope
coming down. . . .</p>

<p class="pindent">But none came: and, after a long time, I
began to feel sick at heart.</p>

<p class="pindent">I did not move, for the night was before
us, and while it was dark we could hope:
but Hanbury was always punctual—and now
he was late. . . .</p>

<p class="pindent">I do not know how long I stood there, but
suddenly my heart bounded as I heard a
movement above.</p>

<p class="pindent">An instant later I had a rope in my
hands. . . .</p>

<p class="pindent">As I put my weight upon it, another rope
brushed my arms, and almost at once, a
third.</p>

<p class="pindent">By my silent direction, Adèle gave one
flash with her torch and, in a twinkling,
Mansel was by our side.</p>

<p class="pindent">Himself he tested the ropes: then he
bound one about her and lifted her on to
the sill.</p>

<p class="pindent">Adèle put her arms round his neck and
pressed her face against his.</p>

<p class="pindent">So we stayed, waiting. . . .</p>

<p class="pindent">Then came a clatter from the passage and
the shiver of broken glass.</p>

<p class="pindent">“My beautiful darling,” said Mansel, and
swung her out of the window and into the
night.</p>

<p class="pindent">For a second he watched her rising: then
he drew back.</p>

<p class="pindent">“You next, William,” he said; “as quick
as you can.”</p>

<p class="pindent">At once I leaned out to grope for the other
two ropes.</p>

<p class="pindent">As I did so, a second clatter came from
beyond our doors.</p>

<p class="pindent">“Quick,” breathed Mansel. “That
demonstration’s too thin.”</p>

<p class="pindent">Desperately I flung out both arms, sweeping
the air—<span class="it">and found nothing</span>.</p>

<p class="pindent">“They’re gone,” I cried, drawing back.
“They were——”</p>

<p class="pindent">Mansel was at the next window, leaning
out and craning his neck.</p>

<p class="pindent">As I did the same, a very faint exclamation
came down from above.</p>

<p class="pindent">And then a thick laugh.</p>

<p class="pindent">“Isn’t that nice?” said ‘Rose’ Noble.</p>

<div><h1 id="chVII">CHAPTER VII<br /><span style="font-size:smaller"> WE PRACTISE TO DECEIVE</span></h1></div>

<p class="pindent">Try as I will, I cannot distinctly remember
what then took place, and I think that I
acted blindly, as a man in a trance.</p>

<p class="pindent">I know that we were both in the passage,
the main doors of which were fast shut, that
our rope was dangling from a window and
that Mansel was about to go down, when
the beam of a torch illumined his head and
shoulders, and a bullet sang past his ear.</p>

<p class="pindent">I know that the light and the shot both
came from directly above, so that, placed
as we were, we could not so much as reply.</p>

<p class="pindent">I know that we were both on the terrace
and that Mansel was casting the rope in the
vain hope of catching a merlon in the noose
he had made.</p>

<p class="pindent">I know that we were both in the antechamber,
that the great door was as we had
left it and that, whilst I fought like a madman
to shift the bolt, Mansel was kneeling beside
me with his head in his hands. . . .</p>

<p class="pindent">At last I felt a touch on my shoulder, and
Mansel got to his feet. I followed him into
the Dining-room slowly enough. My head
was strangely heavy, and I felt shaken and
spent. Had he bade me lie down and sleep,
I should have done his bidding without a
word. The shock of what we had done had
left me listless.</p>

<p class="pindent">Mansel sat down in a chair, and I sat down
in another and waited for him to speak.</p>

<p class="pindent">To be honest, I hoped he would stay silent,
for I could think of no comment upon our
case which would not be bitter as death and
wholly vain: but, when he began to speak,
he did so with such composure as fairly
shamed me out of a humour so recreant and
so mean.</p>

<p class="pindent">“Something, of course,” he said quietly,
“has happened to George. I can tell you
the time when it happened—ten o’clock
yesterday night. He was awaiting a message
at the foot of the cliff. No doubt he was
being watched. And, when the packet fell
down, the enemy laid him out and picked it
up. When I say ‘George,’ I mean ‘George
and the servants,’ of course. They’re not
four any more—four effectives: they may
not even be three. . . .</p>

<p class="pindent">“Point number two—<span class="it">’Rose’ Noble is not
alone</span>. He may have been yesterday morning,
but he’s certainly not alone now. I suppose
he took them in by a rope some time last
night. Anyway, he’s smarter than I am,
and Punter or Casemate has certainly bested
George.</p>

<p class="pindent">“Point number three—<span class="it">we must get out of
this suite</span>. I should never have split our
force: and now, by hook or by crook, I’ve
got to join it again. If Carson or George is
alive, they’ll attack to-night, and we’ve got
to open the gate and let them in. What’s a
thousand times worse, if we’re still at his
mercy to-morrow, ‘Rose’ Noble will put on
the screw. . . .</p>

<p class="pindent">“Point number four—<span class="it">the ‘hands-up’ phase
is over</span>. From now on seeing is shooting, and
shooting to kill. ‘Rose’ Noble’s still hoping
to break me, for the sake of doing a deal:
but he knows it’s a chance in a million and
he’s not going to risk his life by sparing
mine.”</p>

<p class="pindent">And there, I remember, he happened to
cast down his eyes.</p>

<p class="pindent">We were not without light, for he had the
torch in his hand, but this he was holding
downward, so that its beam made a circle
upon the floor.</p>

<p class="pindent">For a moment he did not move. Then
he was out of his chair and down on his
knees. . . .</p>

<p class="pindent">Clean around the table there was a crack
in the floor.</p>

<p class="pindent">It was a very fine cleft and was choked
with dust and the wax with which the floor
had been rubbed; but these gave way at
once to the point of a knife, and then we
could see that the floor had been sawn
asunder with the finest of saws.</p>

<p class="pindent">I could scarcely believe that here was
another trap-door, for, for one thing only,
the cleft was surrounding the table with a
fair two inches to spare, and a trap-door
some eight feet by five seemed out of reason:
yet, for some purpose or other, the floor had
been cut, and, what seemed to me still more
strange, except by the dust and the wax,
the cleft had never been stopped.</p>

<p class="pindent">Mansel was speaking in my ear.</p>

<p class="pindent">“The table sinks through the floor. I saw
it once before in some castle. The idea was
to gain privacy. No servants in the room;
but the table descended and rose between
each course.” He touched the smooth oak
beneath the table. “This piece of the floor
is really no more than a lift: and, if we can
find out its trick. . . .”</p>

<p class="pindent">I sought to move the table, but it was
fixed to the floor.</p>

<p class="pindent">“That’s right,” breathed Mansel. “The
other I saw was fixed. I remember they said
it was raised by a system of pulleys and
weights. The weights weighed far more than
the table, so it couldn’t descend on its own or
so much as budge, but had to be hauled down
by a windlass between each course.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“It’s as firm as a rock,” said I, stooping.
“You don’t think it’s locked into place.”</p>

<p class="pindent">Mansel shrugged his shoulders.</p>

<p class="pindent">“We must try to find out,” he said. “If
we can weight it enough. . . .”</p>

<p class="pindent">Then I saw that, with four counterweights,
each, let us say, of the weight of the table
and lift, these two would seem as much fixed
as though they had beneath them a girder
to hold them in place—<span class="it">until there was laid
upon them a burden three times their own
weight</span>; but that if we could manage to
load them to this extent the table would
sink through the floor and open a way of
escape.</p>

<p class="pindent">In silence we lifted the chairs and set
them upon the board: they were immensely
heavy, but the table stood fast. Ten more
chairs we added, bringing them one by one
from the other rooms and using our rope to
lash the perilous pile. But, though we added
our weight, the mass never budged.</p>

<p class="pindent">And here we were brought to a standstill,
for, though there were yet more chairs, we
had used all the rope we had and we could
not think how to get them on to the top of
the structure their fellows made.</p>

<p class="pindent">Suddenly I thought of the slab which
Mansel and I had hidden beneath the King’s
bed. . . .</p>

<p class="pindent">We had dragged this into the chamber,
and I was under the table, with my feet
braced against the great stretcher, hauling
the stone into place, and sitting, as it
happened, directly upon the cleft, when I
felt a definite movement beneath my seat.</p>

<p class="pindent">At once I told Mansel, and, after a short
consultation, we lay down upon opposite
sides and, taking hold of the stretcher, began
to pass by inches on to the lift.</p>

<p class="pindent">As I drew myself on, I felt this beginning
to move, and all at once we were sinking
into some cold, dark place.</p>

<p class="pindent">We must have come down with a crash,
but the chairs we had piled on the table
were overlapping the lift, and, when these
were prevented by the floor, the lift, thus
relieved of their weight, immediately stopped.</p>

<p class="pindent">The torch now showed us a cellar, with a
door in its eastern wall. About us was the
massive cage in which the lift ran, and at
each of its corners were a pulley and a rope
and a great counterweight of stone. A little
to one side stood the windlass, as Mansel
had said.</p>

<p class="pindent">And now, once again, as they say, we had
the wolf by the ears.</p>

<p class="pindent">The floor was but eight feet away, but,
if one of us was to descend, the lift would
instantly rise and, taking the other up, lock
him once more into the Dining-room; while,
if both descended at once, the lift would
shoot back into place with a shock which
would shake the castle and send the twelve
chairs crashing to wake the dead.</p>

<p class="pindent">But, after a little reflection, Mansel found
out a way.</p>

<p class="pindent">On the under side of the lift, right in its
middle, was a hook: to this was attached
the great rope which the windlass controlled.
If we could reach this rope, the trick was ours.</p>

<p class="pindent">Mansel took my left wrist in his hands and
lowered me clear of the lift. At once I swung
to and fro until I could reach and lay hold
of the great iron hook. With my left hand
I then laid hold of the edge of the lift, and
Mansel climbed round my body and seized
the rope. Then we came down the rope
together, on to the ground.</p>

<p class="pindent">We let the lift rise by inches, until it was
back in its place, and then, with one accord,
we turned to the door.</p>

<p class="pindent">This was unfastened and brought us directly
into what seemed a great hall.</p>

<p class="pindent">For a moment I thought we were out, for
I heard the gurgle of water as plain as could
be, but then I perceived that the air was the
air of a crypt, dank and something musty
and very still.</p>

<p class="pindent">After listening carefully, we ventured to
light the torch.</p>

<p class="pindent">The place was a kitchen, but had not been
used as such for a number of years. There
was the huge fireplace, with the chains for
the spits hanging down, and a grate like a
hay-rack to serve a dozen joints. Five
great, shuttered windows were looking upon
the courtyard, and a doorway, whose step
was muddy, was in the same wall.</p>

<p class="pindent">And on the hearth lay George Hanbury,
with his wrists and his ankles bound and a
gag in his mouth.</p>

<hr class="tbk" />

<p class="pindent">That George had been left there to live,
if he could, but, if he could not, to die we had
not much doubt. He had lain there, gagged
and bound, for twenty-four hours: his bonds
had never been loosened, he had been given
no water, much less any food: he had not
so much as been visited. And such as will
so use a prisoner are scarcely like to be
troubled to find him dead.</p>

<p class="pindent">Happily George was strong, and his
condition of health as fine as ours, and, when
we had set him free and had chafed his limbs,
he was able to rise and to walk as straight
as he pleased. It was clear, however, that
he must have food and drink, and, since
there remained in the Closet some brandy
and bread and meat, we made our way back
to the cellar without delay.</p>

<p class="pindent">By using the windlass, we had the lift
down at once, but, when I would have gone
up, Mansel put me aside.</p>

<p class="pindent">“I’m going,” he said. “And please give
me full five minutes before you bring me
down. Now that one’s got to go back, he
may as well cover our tracks: the pile of
chairs doesn’t matter, but that slab would
make anyone think.”</p>

<p class="pindent">With that, he mounted the lift, and I
hoisted him up.</p>

<p class="pindent">And while he was gone, George Hanbury
told me his tale.</p>

<p class="pindent">“When the car came out of the castle, I
was down by the beechwoods at the foot of
the cliff. Rowley was with me, but Carson
and Bell and Tester were on guard, within
sound of the drive.</p>

<p class="pindent">“Carson heard the car coming, and the
moment it passed he gave chase. I don’t
know whether they had expected this, but
they did the best they could think of to
shake him off. Of course they failed. They
didn’t bother much about the foot of the
cliff: they certainly went that way, for I
saw them go by, but they passed at sixty
and never so much as slowed up. The sight
of them worried me, but I didn’t see what I
could do but stay where I was. Of course
Carson could have caught them, but, as Bell
and he were alone, he thought he couldn’t
do better than cling to their heels. For
half an hour they had the devil’s own luck—never
a check. Then comes a hairpin bend,
and two hundred yards further on a flock of
sheep. . . .</p>

<p class="pindent">“When Carson rounded the corner, Bunch
was fifty yards off and <span class="it">turning his car</span>. Sheep
or no, it was an excellent move. The car has
a shortish wheel-base, but a Rolls takes some
getting round. Then Carson did well. He
stopped, went into reverse and started to
back to a turning he’d marked at the top of
the hill. Before he could get there, Bunch
was coming like hell. There was Punter
beside him, and Casemate was back in the
car. As they went by, Punter fired full at
Carson and hit the brim of his hat. . . .</p>

<p class="pindent">“This annoyed Carson and Bell, and I
must say I’m not surprised. And, as soon
as the Rolls was round, they put her along.
By this time Bunch had stolen a bit of a
start, but they gradually overhauled him,
and, choosing a smooth bit of going, Bell
took a shot at their tank. He didn’t hit it
that time, but he laid it open the next. . . .</p>

<p class="pindent">“It was now a matter of time and nothing
else. Bunch might do another three miles,
but he couldn’t do more, so Carson fell back
a little, to keep, as he judged, out of range.
Considering they’d fired again and made a
hole in the screen, I think he was wise.</p>

<p class="pindent">“They were now not more than six miles
from the foot of the cliff, and heading that
way. The road was full of bends, so half
the time the cars were out of each other’s
sight. You can guess what happened. Three
miles on Carson rounded a bend to see the
car, doors open, by the side of the road.
Of course, he put down his foot and went by
a blue streak. Two shots were fired, but
they didn’t do any harm.</p>

<p class="pindent">“Then Carson drove back to the spur,
and he hadn’t been there ten minutes when I
came in. I was as pleased as Punch when I
heard his report. I assumed they’d gone
out to get food: and now their car was done
in, and they were cut off. We fairly picketed
that spur. A ferret couldn’t have passed
the line we held. . . .</p>

<p class="pindent">“Bell and I visited the beechwoods at
three. I hated leaving the spur, but it
didn’t seem prudent for one to go out alone.
We saw no one, and, when we got back, Carson
had nothing to report.</p>

<p class="pindent">“At last it began to grow dark, and I had
to face two fresh facts. The first was this.
According to plan, one of the cars must now
leave for the foot of the cliff <span class="it">and stay there
perhaps till dawn</span>. That was awkward
enough, but the second was worse. It was
a yard of pearls to a bootlace that Punter
and Casemate and Bunch would try to get
home that night.</p>

<p class="pindent">“After a lot of reflection, I decided to go
alone to the foot of the cliff. I went. I
meant to take Tester, but at the last I forgot.
I found the rope gone and imagined you’d
pulled it up. At ten o’clock something fell
down about ten yards from where I stood.
As I bent over it, somebody laid me out. . . .</p>

<p class="pindent">“Well, there you are.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“The next thing I knew I was lying in
the back of the Rolls, which was doing forty
over a wicked road. Then I was taken out
and hauled through a ground-floor window
into the Castle of Gath.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Of course it was easy. When the servants
heard the Rolls coming, they thought it was
me. They probably thought it odd that I
should drive on up to Gath, but, before
they’d scented the trouble, the fat was
burnt.”</p>

<p class="pindent">As I bent again to the windlass, my mind
was full.</p>

<p class="pindent">Not only was ‘Rose’ Noble’s foresight a
fearsome thing, but the fellow was very well
served. Punter and Bunch and Casemate
had done uncommonly well. But what struck
me most of all was that, though their car
had been ruined and the Rolls was at their
gate, the temptation to take her inside had
been withstood. That for this resolution
we had ‘Rose’ Noble to thank, I have no
doubt: the others would scarce have
renounced so handsome a prize. Yet, had
we seen the Rolls in the archway, the sight
would have told us that George was out of
the running, and Adèle would not have been
delivered into the enemy’s hand. This was
the pink of strategy—the casting away of a
sceptre to win a crown: and I must confess
a sudden, craven fear that we should never
outwit a man so firm of purpose and so
unearthly wise.</p>

<p class="pindent">The gurgle of water in the kitchen came
from a little well. This had been sunk in
the floor and was fed by a pipe which clearly
ran out of the channel we knew so well. A
similar pipe was conducting the overflow.
By this simple device, the cooks had always
fresh water ready to hand, and, what is more
to the point, poor George was able to drink
and to bathe his aching jaws. Then we plied
him with brandy and made him eat what
there was, for, though he made light of his
bondage, a man cannot suffer as he had and
feel as sound the same night.</p>

<p class="pindent">While he was eating and drinking, we laid
our plans.</p>

<p class="pindent">That the servants were close at hand we
had no doubt. Indeed, it seemed certain
that they would any moment attack. If
they did so before we could reach them, they
would assuredly fail, for, for one thing only,
they would enter by way of the roof, which
the enemy was holding against our escape
from the suite. They would thus walk clean
into a trap, of which we, below, could not
warn them, because we could not climb up.
We, therefore, determined to make at once
for the gate and, opening this if we could,
to bring them in. If we could contrive to do
this without being seen or heard, we should
for the first time have the advantage of the
enemy, for, whilst they were sure that they
had but two men to deal with, and those
under lock and key, in fact there would be
six men free and within their camp.</p>

<p class="pindent">The kitchen-door was unlocked and yielded
without any fuss.</p>

<p class="pindent">As we looked into the courtyard, hardly
daring to breathe, the beam of a torch swept
the wall beneath which we stood. It was
little more than a flash and came, as before,
from above; but it showed that the passage
windows were still being watched. We had
expected no less, but, although the beam was
directed upon the wall, it lighted quite twenty
feet of the courtyard itself, and, unless we
could cross this belt between the flashes, we
could not fail to be seen.</p>

<p class="pindent">“No good waiting,” breathed Mansel.
“We must go across one by one. The first
twenty feet on foot and as hard as we can:
then, down on your face and crawl the rest
of the way. If we go lightly, the water will
cover our noise. Chandos first. Wait for me
in the porch: I may be a little time coming,
because I must shut this door. And now
stand by.”</p>

<p class="pindent">Whilst he was speaking, the flashes came
and went, but at intervals so irregular that
no observation could help us, and we had
nothing to do but to take our chance.</p>

<p class="pindent">At last Mansel gave the word, and I made
my dash.</p>

<p class="pindent">As I fell on my face, a flicker lit up the
courtyard. . . .</p>

<p class="pindent">Ten minutes later we were all three in the
porch.</p>

<p class="pindent">The wicket-gate was locked, and its key
was gone. We, therefore, made ready to open
the great gate itself, using the greatest care
to make no sound. And here, to our vexation,
we met with another check. Though
we could feel the great bolts, we could not
make out how to draw them, for each was
engaged with some catch which we could not
release. It was dreadful to stand there
fumbling, because of some simple holdfast
never devised to embarrass a porter’s hand,
but intended to prevent the bolts turning
under battery of the gate. Yet show a
light we dared not: and, as the minutes
went by and the catch still mocked our
fingers for want of sight, I began to feel that
Fortune was not so much frowning upon us
as laughing at us in her sleeve.</p>

<p class="pindent">Then Mansel gave a short sigh and drew
his bolt, and a moment later his fingers were
playing with mine.</p>

<p class="pindent">As the door yielded, he put his mouth to
my ear.</p>

<p class="pindent">“You go and find them,” he said.
“Hanbury and I stay here. If you don’t
strike them at once, try using the torch.
But——”</p>

<p class="pindent">And there, somewhere behind us, a shot
rang out.</p>

<p class="pindent">As we swung round—</p>

<p class="pindent">“I saw the flash,” said Hanbury. “Up<span class="it">
on the roof.</span>”</p>

<hr class="tbk" />

<p class="pindent">I ran full tilt into Rowley, who was standing
at the foot of the ladders, with a cord in his
hand.</p>

<p class="pindent">“Oh, thank God, sir,” says he. “We
thought you were gone.”</p>

<p class="pindent">I shook him by the shoulder and pointed up
to the roof.</p>

<p class="pindent">“Recall them!” I cried. “Recall them!
How can you get them back?”</p>

<p class="pindent">He was tugging at the cord, like a madman,
when another two shots rang out.</p>

<p class="pindent">I could not stand there idle, but began to
go up the wall.</p>

<p class="pindent">I was on the second ladder, when someone
above me looked down.</p>

<p class="pindent">“Is that you, Bell?”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Yes, sir.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Get Carson and come down to the gate.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Very good, sir.”</p>

<p class="pindent">I slid and fell back to the ground, to run
to the gate.</p>

<p class="pindent">Mansel was standing, waiting, cool as a
man in a garden, regarding his flowers.</p>

<p class="pindent">“Carson must stay out,” he said. “I
daren’t have everyone in. He and Tester
must feed us and keep the cars. Send him
for food and drink, as soon as he’s down.
And two fifty-foot lengths of rope. The
others come in.”</p>

<p class="pindent">Whilst he was speaking, another four shots
were fired, and I ran back to Rowley with my
heart in my mouth.</p>

<p class="pindent">Him I sent to the gate and took his place.
I think he was glad to go, for the firing was
growing hotter, and to stand at the foot
of the ladder in the knowledge that those you
were awaiting might very well never come
down pulled at a man’s nerves.</p>

<p class="pindent">Such concern will seem out of reason.
When six men set out in a body to play with
fire, it hardly becomes them to tremble lest
someone be burned. But our outlook was
not so simple. We feared no more for
Carson than Carson feared for himself: but
we all of us feared very much for the matter
in hand. Our school was not that of ‘Rose’
Noble. If one of us was wounded, we could
not let him lie: he would have to be saved
and attended at any cost: how high that
cost would be no one could tell, but, placed
as we were, we all knew that such a distraction
might ruin our enterprise.</p>

<p class="pindent">It seemed an age before Bell began to
descend. . . .</p>

<p class="pindent">“Are you hit?” said I.</p>

<p class="pindent">“Oh, no, sir,” said he. “Nor’s Carson.
But, of course, we had to go slow.”</p>

<p class="pindent">I sent him to Mansel at once.</p>

<p class="pindent">Then a shot was fired right above me, and
Carson came down with a run.</p>

<p class="pindent">“Come,” said I, and led him away up
the spur. . . .</p>

<p class="pindent">It was well that I did so, for a light leaped
out of the darkness, and a bullet went over
our heads. To round the picture, I turned
and fired back at the torch. No doubt the
bullet went wide, but the light was put out.</p>

<p class="pindent">Then I stopped and gave Carson his orders
and told him that we were all safe, and he
promised to be at the gate in a quarter of an
hour. Then I stole back to the castle, and
Mansel took me in.</p>

<p class="pindent">Two doorways led out of the archway, one
upon either hand. These Mansel set us to
watch till Carson should come: “but I
don’t think,” said he, “they’ll disturb us:
they’ve got their hands full. They’ve the
roof to watch, and the passage, and it won’t
be light for three hours.”</p>

<p class="pindent">Here he was right, for Carson came and
went, but nobody else; and, though lights
flashed on the roof and the passage windows
were closely and continually watched, no one
came down to the archway or entered the
great courtyard.</p>

<p class="pindent">Carson went heavily away, for, though his
part was most dangerous—because, except
for Tester, he was alone—and though he
would be the sole link between us and the
world we knew, he had the true heart of a
fighter and could hardly bear to leave us at
such a pinch.</p>

<p class="pindent">Early next morning he was to drive into
Lass and there to take in supplies which
should last us a week. He was then to
bestow the two cars as best he could, somewhere
beyond the wood and by the cross
roads. He was not to move during the day,
but by night he was to come to the spur and
there wait till one of us met him or else it
was dawn.</p>

<p class="pindent">Then Mansel shut the gate and shot the
great bolts and set his face again to the
business of reaching Adèle, or, to be more
precise, of thrusting between her and ‘Rose’
Noble, <span class="it">before the latter knew we were there</span>.</p>

<p class="pindent">One thing was plain. Before the night was
over, we must either have accomplished our
purpose or have gained some room or corner
where we could lie hid. Now the only shelter
we knew was that of the cellar beneath the
dining-room’s floor, but, since our goal was,
as ever, the south-west tower, we decided to
make for the latter and to trust to striking
another and more convenient lair.</p>

<p class="pindent">Now, though we knew next to nothing of
the way from the porch to Adèle, we had one
valuable clue.</p>

<p class="pindent">When Casemate had been hounded by
‘Rose’ Noble to ‘turn out the car,’ he had
certainly reached the porch as quickly as
ever he could. Now his shortest path, as we
knew from the bookseller’s guide, was down
the Grand Staircase and across the courtyard.
<span class="it">But Casemate had not crossed the courtyard.</span>
It was, therefore, perfectly plain that that
way was shut.</p>

<p class="pindent">We, therefore, turned to the door in the
western wall of the porch, for Casemate
had come out of that, and that could,
therefore, lead us back to the ‘gallery of
stone.’</p>

<p class="pindent">I could set down our passage in detail, for
I remember most clearly every step that we
took. The hopes and fears which attended
us, the sudden shocks of thankfulness and
dismay, the waves of suspense, and relief—all
these are engraved upon my memory as
letters cut upon a stone. But I think that
such a recital would be out of place, for only
those that were there could find it moving,
and I have not the mind or the skill to trick
it out.</p>

<p class="pindent">And so I will only say that by galleries,
stairs and chambers we made our way in
the darkness towards the south-west tower.
Again and again boards creaked beneath our
weight, and sometimes, do what we would, a
hinge would whine: we made mistakes in
our going and were forced to retrace the steps
we had been at such pains to take; and we
went at a true snail’s pace and as blind men
go, for we dared not use our torches in case
their light should betray us and ruin our game.</p>

<p class="pindent">At break of day we stood in a little lobby
that looked out upon the mountains and
seemed at that misty moment to command
the world.</p>

<p class="pindent">The place had the look of a guard-room,
and so, I am sure, it had served, for a wicket
gave directly on to a winding stair, which
if a man ascended he came to the roof, but,
if he went down, <span class="it">he came to the ‘gallery of
stone.’</span> It was, indeed, the stairway of the
south-west tower.</p>

<p class="pindent">So we broke and entered into that jealous
keep which for six long days had mocked us
and all our works.</p>

<p class="pindent">The need for caution was now paramount.</p>

<p class="pindent">We stood at the enemy’s elbow, and he
did not know we were there. We had our
hand almost upon him; but he had his hand
on Adèle. He was unready, but we did not
know the ground. If we could strike before
he could, the game was ours: but if we were
to be behindhand, we had better be sitting at
Lass with our hands in our lap.</p>

<p class="pindent">We afterwards found that there were in
the tower three apartments, consisting of two
rooms each. These were a bedroom and
bathroom, very well done. The window from
which Adèle had signalled was that of the
middle apartment, the door of which, as she
had told us, gave into the ‘gallery of stone.’</p>

<p class="pindent">For a long time we crouched like animals,
straining our ears; but we could hear no
sound. Then Mansel breathed his orders,
and we began to move. . . .</p>

<p class="pindent">George stood fast in the lobby, ready to
shoot at sight: Bell and Rowley stole three
steps up the stair and stayed with their backs
to the wall and their knives in their hands:
and Mansel, with me behind him, began to
go down. . . .</p>

<p class="pindent">It was dark in the gallery, for all its five
doors were shut, but a pale smear of light was
betraying the threshold of the door which led
to the terrace steps. That gave us our
bearings at once, but, if there was someone
there, we could not see him, and the silence
all about us was that of death.</p>

<p class="pindent">Then came a sigh of the wind, and something
moved.</p>

<p class="pindent">It was a door on our right—the door of
the prisoner’s room.</p>

<p class="pindent">Very slowly we watched it open, letting the
daylight out. I could see Mansel just before
me, covering the gap with his pistol and
steady as any rock. I could see beyond him
and into the very room. The floor was bare
and polished, and the walls were panelled
with oak.</p>

<p class="pindent">Then, very slowly, the door began to close.</p>

<p class="pindent">In a flash Mansel had stopped it, and we
were within the room.</p>

<p class="pindent">This was empty.</p>

<p class="pindent">A window had been left open, and that had
occasioned the draught. The bathroom was
empty, too. Adèle was gone.</p>

<p class="pindent">Two minutes later we had proved the truth
to the hilt.</p>

<p class="pindent"><span class="it">The three apartments were vacant, and the
door to the roof was shut. ‘Rose’ Noble,
prisoner and all had withdrawn to the opposite
tower.</span></p>

<hr class="tbk" />

<p class="pindent">It was a bitter business.</p>

<p class="pindent">That our labour was lost was nothing:
but the waste of time shocked us, and the
thought that, so far from progressing, <span class="it">we
were now twice as far from Adèle as we had
been at the time when we stood in the porch</span>
was plain torment.</p>

<p class="pindent">That we never had any doubt where ‘Rose’
Noble and his prisoner were gone, I
attribute to Mansel alone. Only a brilliant
perception can rip the skin off an assumption
and bare a fact. Everything certainly argued
withdrawal to the south-east tower: but
that was not nearly enough. We had to
<span class="it">know</span>. And Mansel knew.</p>

<p class="pindent">I have said we were now twice the distance
that we had been from Adèle. And so it
seemed, for we dared not use the roof during
the day and, as we had reason to know, the
way by the Royal Apartments was straitly
barred. Yet the thought of returning to the
porch and thence beginning again to grope
our way was hardly to be endured, because
the clock was against us and we feared to
let go so much time. Cross the porch in
daylight we could not, because of the man
on the roof. We must, therefore, wait until
nightfall to make the move—some sixteen
hours of inaction, when time was so very
dear. The harder we stared upon this
prospect, the more ugly and hazardous it
grew: the more the daylight broadened, the
more perilous seemed delay. Any moment
‘Rose’ Noble might discover that Mansel
and I had escaped: any moment the kitchen
might be entered, and Hanbury’s release
become known: any moment one of the gang
might stumble into our arms, and, though we
could stop his mouth, his failure to reappear
would tell its tale. And if none of these
things happened and we lay close until night,
would our passage be so successful as the
passage that we had made? <span class="it">Was there a
way within doors to the south-east tower?</span> And
what of the caretakers? That we had not
found them last night suggested most strongly
that their rooms lay the other side: and if
we encountered the woman, she was most
sure to give tongue. . . .</p>

<p class="pindent">For an hour we stayed in the gallery,
keeping such watch as we could and, for my
part, feverishly considering what we should
do.</p>

<p class="pindent">At length Mansel bade us all listen and,
with the plainest reluctance, unfolded the
following plan.</p>

<p class="pindent">“Mr. Chandos and I must re-enter the
Royal suite. That we can do from this end
without any fuss. Mr. Hanbury with Bell
and Rowley will go to the top of this tower.
Ten minutes after we have entered, Mr.
Chandos will give a great cry. The sentinel
watching the courtyard will rush to the
opposite wall, to see me piled up on the
terrace, with a length of rope in my hand.
I shall plainly have fallen down while
attempting to scale the wall. Mr. Chandos
will be kneeling beside me, trying to lift
me up. The sentry will rush to his tower to
raise the alarm. He will surely leave the
door open—the door from the roof. <span class="it">Mr.
Hanbury and Bell and Rowley will immediately
cross the roof and follow him in.</span></p>

<p class="pindent">“Now I think that ‘Rose’ Noble will go
to the terrace at once: and the others with
him. You see, if I were to die, Mrs. Pleydell,
comparatively speaking, would hardly pay
for her keep. So I think they’ll all get down
to me as fast as they can. Very well. While
they are gone, Mr. Hanbury, Rowley and Bell
will find Mrs. Pleydell, release her and carry
her off. Let her down to the spur with
Rowley and see that she runs for the wood.
Carson to drive her to Poganec there and
then. <span class="it">Not until she’s down on the spur</span> will
Mr. Hanbury and Bell return to the tower—with
the object of killing ‘Rose’ Noble
before he kills them.”</p>

<p class="pindent">He paused there for a moment, biting his
lip.</p>

<p class="pindent">“I don’t like it,” he added slowly, “but
I don’t know what else to do. It washes me
out of the battle and Mr. Chandos, too:
but a part must be played which no one but
we two can play. ‘Rose’ Noble has got to
be drawn from his prisoner’s side. And
nothing that I can think of will do that,
except my health. Any ordinary demonstration
would make him stick tighter than ever
to Mrs. Pleydell’s arm. But tell him I’m
down and out, and, though he won’t believe
you, <span class="it">he’ll go to see</span>. And on that point, one
word more.</p>

<p class="pindent">“Instead of rushing to the terrace, ‘Rose’
Noble might rush to the roof. He’s a very
shrewd man. If he does, you’ve got him,
you three. Don’t wait. Just let him have
it—both barrels and one for luck. Once he’s
over, you won’t see the others for dust.”</p>

<p class="pindent">As he spoke, some door was opened, and
down the winding stairway came Punter’s
voice.</p>

<p class="pindent">“An’, when you’re through, you might
take a look at the Willie. I don’t suppose
he’d bite you if you took out his bit.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Rose said—” began Casemate.</p>

<p class="pindent">“I know,” said Punter. “That’s Rose.
But I don’t fancy dead men. You can
shove the corpse in the ground, but a yard
full of sextons can’t bury the —— shout.
One or two dead’s enough, and before this
worry’s over you’ll see all that. No. Let
the —— waste if you like, but keep ’im
alive.”</p>

<p class="pindent">At Punter’s first word we had begun to
withdraw, for it had been arranged that, at
the first show of movement, we should
immediately enter the room which Adèle
had used. At a sign from Mansel, however,
I let the others retire and began to follow
him gently up the stair. This was, of
course, of stone, so we made no sound.</p>

<p class="pindent">It was a desperate move, but I knew where
Mansel was going and I knew he was right to
go.</p>

<p class="pindent"><span class="it">Casemate was bound for the kitchen: so
Casemate had to be stopped.</span> And, if he
reached the guard-room before us, the game
was up. You cannot pursue in silence over
a wooden floor.</p>

<p class="pindent">Mercifully the voices continued, but I
never knew what they said. My ears were
strained to catch nothing but a step on the
stair.</p>

<p class="pindent">But none came. Only the voices grew
clearer the higher we went.</p>

<p class="pindent">We glided into the guard-room, after the
way of a snake. Then we turned right and
left and stood, one on each side of the doorway,
with our backs flat against the wall.
The wicket opened outwards, so we were
very well placed.</p>

<p class="pindent">“I don’t care,” Casemate was saying, “I
don’t like the —— job. I don’t mind dirty
weather, but I like to know where I
am.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“If you must know,” said Punter, “you’re
up on the velvet top. Mansel put up a bluff,
and its bottom’s fell out. Rose has got
’im as tight as a——”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Never knew when he hadn’t,” said Casemate.
“First, he’d never find us: and then
he’d never get in. Now you say ‘That’s all
right, but he’ll never get out.’ An’ what
about Jute? Where’s Jute?”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Jute knows ’is garden,” said Punter.
“If Jute don’t come in, it’s because there’s
some rhubarb wants watchin’ the other
side.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“If you ask me,” said Casemate, “Jute’s——<span class="it">well
pulled out</span>.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Oh, put it away,” said Punter. “Why,
Jute——”</p>

<p class="pindent">“—— well pulled out,” repeated Casemate.
“He’s had a look at his seaweed and he’s got
in out of the rain. An’ I don’t blame ’im.
‘Half a million,’ says Rose, ‘for the pickin’
up.’ ‘<span class="it">Pickin’ up.</span>’ ” He sucked in his
breath. “I wonder what he’d call ‘reachin’
down.’ An’ when I said ‘Who’s this
Mansel?’, he says ‘He’s a one-legged
Willie, with a college way of talking and a
mouth full of rubber teeth.’ ”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Now, look ’ere,” said Punter earnestly.
“I don’t deny that Mansel’s not big small
stuff. He ran round Jute, an’ he climbs like
a —— ape. But that’s where ’e gets off.
He’s not up to Rose’s weight.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“He never was,” said Casemate. “But
he —— near got him down: an’ he’s not
dead yet.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Now look at it this way,” said Punter,
plainly doing his best to hearten his doubting
friend. “A man don’t cough up half a
million because you tickle ’is chin. He’s
got to be broke in pieces, an’ then some
more. Well, he’s not going to hand you
the funny ’ammer, you know. He’s goin’ to
bite an’ scratch—till you’ve got him stuck.
Well, he’s had his bite an’ his scratch, an’
now he’s —— well stuck. I’ll tell you this.
So long as Mansel was out, I never slep’
sound. I’ve seen ’im before, an’ I like to
know ’is game. But now I’ll put my feet up,
because the ——’s stuck. —— well stuck,
like a bug pinned up on a board. An’ you
watch ’im come unbuttoned this afternoon.
Wait till he hears the goods beginning to
talk.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“It doesn’t hurt,” said Casemate. “I
had my arm done once.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“I guess Rose didn’t do it,” said Punter.
“And now slip after them eats. There’s a
pot o’ strawberry back o’ the cans of pears.”</p>

<p class="pindent">Casemate made no answer, but began to
descend. . . .</p>

<p class="pindent">I think I shall always hear his steps on the
stair.</p>

<p class="pindent">To my fancy his tread seemed wary, as
though the man were suspicious, apprehensive
of ill to come. He certainly stood at the
wicket for a quarter of a minute or more, as
though he had remarked and was listening
to the vigorous slam of my heart two paces
away.</p>

<p class="pindent">Then he pulled open the door and came
into the room.</p>

<p class="pindent">I did not see Mansel strike him, for the
former had been a great boxer and was
startlingly quick with his hands. But I
heard the dull smack of the blow, and I saw
Casemate spin on his heel and then fall
away from me backwards, without a cry. I
heard his head meet the stone, and his body
fell down with a thud, but the sounds were
dead sounds and could not, I think, have
been heard at the head of the stair.</p>

<p class="pindent">My eyes were still upon Casemate, when
Mansel touched me and turned.</p>

<p class="pindent">I pointed to the form on the floor.</p>

<p class="pindent">“Safe for an hour,” breathed Mansel.
“The others will tie him up.”</p>

<p class="pindent">We whipped down into the gallery, and,
whilst I summoned the others, Mansel undid
the bolts of the passage door.</p>

<p class="pindent">I must here confess that I quailed at the
sight of that suite. For me it reeked of
misfortune, of frantic endeavour doomed
before it was begun: and to go back to such
a cockpit of broken hopes was clean against
my stomach. Yet, as Mansel had said, there
was nothing else to be done; and, in view of
the Casemate business, we had not a moment
to lose.</p>

<p class="pindent">I signed to Rowley to give me his coil of
rope.</p>

<p class="pindent">As he laid it about my shoulders,</p>

<p class="pindent">“Shut the door, but don’t bolt it,” breathed
Mansel. “And stand by to move in five—not
ten minutes’ time.”</p>

<p class="pindent">Hanbury nodded. I observed that he
looked very pale.</p>

<p class="pindent">Then Mansel stole into the passage, and I
in his wake.</p>

<p class="pindent">Before we had gained the Closet, the door
had been shut.</p>

<hr class="tbk" />

<p class="pindent">The windows of the Closet were still open,
as was the trap-door, and the room was full
of sweet air and the murmur of the water
below.</p>

<p class="pindent">Mansel sat down on the floor, and swung
his legs into the trap. Then he looked up
and smiled.</p>

<p class="pindent">“William,” he said, keeping his eyes upon
mine, “we’re going to bring this right off.
I know you’re frightened to death of letting
me down: but you won’t—if you do as
I say.</p>

<p class="pindent">“I want you to stand at that window, and
I’ll tell you what you will see. Never mind
whether you’re dreaming or whether your
sight is blurred. <span class="it">This is what you will see</span>—and,
consequently, what you will do.</p>

<p class="pindent">“You’ll see me come out of the archway
on to the terrace below. You’ll see me cast
the rope and you’ll watch it rise. At the second
attempt you’ll see it catch on something—you
can’t tell what. You’ll see me test it
and watch me begin to climb. I shall go up
. . . up . . . up . . . Leaning well out of
the window, you’ll watch me with your heart
in your mouth. When I’m six feet from the
top, <span class="it">to your indescribable horror</span> the rope will
begin to slip. Instinctively you’ll try to
warn me—let out a hell of a cry. As you do
so, the rope will go, and I shall come down.
You’ll see me asprawl on the terrace, lying
appallingly still and you’ll naturally rush to
reach me as quick as you can. I shall be
plainly disabled—for all you know, dead.
Well, that means the game’s over, and you’ll
naturally shout for help. When it comes,
they may possibly seize you, but you’ll
only do your best to get back to my side.
You see, I shall still be breathing, but the
fall will have broken my back.</p>

<p class="pindent">“And now let me have the rope.</p>

<p class="pindent">“When you see my arm go back, you’ll
know that I’m going to sling it. Watch it
rise and fall, and mark how I gather it up
for the second cast.”</p>

<p class="pindent">As he spoke, he was making a slip-knot,
but his eyes never left my face.</p>

<p class="pindent">Then he smiled again and disappeared.</p>

<p class="pindent">I made my way to the window, like a man
in a dream. . . .</p>

<p class="pindent">I cannot swear to what happened in the
next two minutes of time. That is the plain
truth. Time and again I have called up the
burden of those moments, started to set it
down and then laid aside my pen. I remember
it perfectly: but I cannot say ‘This I
imagined, and that I saw,’ for the line between
fact and fancy is a line that I cannot trace.
Indeed I shall always believe that Mansel had
influenced my will, for I did what I did
dazedly and was conscious all the time of the
smile upon Mansel’s face and the light in his
eyes.</p>

<p class="pindent">I remember leaning out of the window and
finding the air most heavy and the sunshine
curiously dull: I remember how the sill of
the casement punished my back and how the
sweat was running upon my hands and face:
I remember shrieking incoherence and feeling
suddenly sick and staggering down to the
archway, trembling in every limb. . . .</p>

<p class="pindent">And then I was all dripping wet and down
on my knees, and Mansel lay huddled before
me with one leg beneath the other and a loose
look about his neck.</p>

<p class="pindent">I got my arm under his shoulders and
raised him up, but his head rolled over
sideways and, though I tried to prop it, it
would not stay.</p>

<p class="pindent">I cried out at that, but maybe I had shouted
before, for I saw ‘Rose’ Noble coming, with
Punter and Bunch. They seemed to come
down in a wave—down the steps from a door
in the wall.</p>

<p class="pindent">As they reached the terrace, a slim figure
flashed in their wake. I watched it outstrip
the three men . . . thrust them aside. . . .</p>

<p class="pindent"><span class="it">Then Adèle was down beside me and sitting
back on her heels, with agony in her eyes and
Mansel’s head in her lap.</span></p>

<div><h1 id="chVIII">CHAPTER VIII<br /><span style="font-size:smaller"> OUT OF SIGHT, OUT OF MIND</span></h1></div>

<p class="pindent">The shutting of a door roused me, and I
sat up to find myself alone.</p>

<p class="pindent">The mountain-tops before me were alight
with sunshine, and in the huge void which
lay between them and the terrace a great
bird was sailing and wheeling, as an aeroplane
at play.</p>

<p class="pindent">For a moment I watched it lazily. Then
I remembered with a shock the plan we had
laid and how perfectly it had worked and
how, in the moment of triumph, Adèle had
brought it to nought.</p>

<p class="pindent">In a flash I was on my feet, and trying to
think what to do.</p>

<p class="pindent">I had been left in a faint, not so much as
bound. My pistol had been taken, but not
my knife. It was clear that I was regarded
as safe under lock and key.</p>

<p class="pindent">At this my heart leaped up, for, of course,
I could leave by the suite whenever I pleased:
the only question was how to turn to account
this unsuspected freedom.</p>

<p class="pindent">In view of the turn events had taken, Mansel
was sure to continue his pretence of a broken
back: finding their purpose frustrated, George
and the servants were probably lying
concealed in the south-east tower: I was at
liberty, and the enemy was clean off his
guard. If we had shot at a pigeon, we had
killed something more than a crow. We had
made notable progress, and, before the day
was over. . . .</p>

<p class="pindent">And there I remembered Casemate, and my
dreams began to settle, as a house that is
built upon sand.</p>

<p class="pindent"><span class="it">Casemate’s failure to return would ruin
everything.</span></p>

<p class="pindent">Quite apart from the finding of him senseless,
which might any moment take place, the
instant ‘Rose’ Noble learned that Casemate
was not up to time, his ever-smouldering
suspicion would burst into flame. He would
see in a twinkling that here was our handiwork,
and, with Mansel under his hand, would turn
the tables upon us before we could think.</p>

<p class="pindent">With a hammering heart, I ran to the
channel and fought my way under the door.
If I could do nothing else, at least I could
get hold of Casemate and carry him out of
sight. And, in any event, I was plainly
better at large than cooped, like a dog, on
the terrace, at the mercy of any whim that
came into the enemy’s head.</p>

<p class="pindent">A moment later I was standing in the
‘gallery of stone.’ . . .</p>

<p class="pindent">Casemate lay as we had left him, flat on his
back.</p>

<p class="pindent">To my surprise, he was neither gagged nor
bound: then I remembered that we had never
told George to tie him up. And I had no
cord. . . .</p>

<p class="pindent">I carried him out of the guard room and
along a passage by which we had come from
the porch. There I found a bedroom that
had not been used. I was preparing to
thrust him under the bed and was wondering
what fool had coined the saying ‘Out of
sight, out of mind,’ and whether, had he
known ‘Rose’ Noble, the adage would not
have been revised, when another proverb
came thrusting into my mind.</p>

<p class="pindent"><span class="it">A living dog</span>, saith The Preacher, is <span class="it">better
than a dead lion</span>.</p>

<p class="pindent">And that made me think of the fable of the
ass in the lion’s skin.</p>

<p class="pindent">And out of the two came wisdom, if you
can call it such.</p>

<p class="pindent">Richard William Chandos, alive and in
Casemate’s clothes, would be infinitely better
than Casemate as good as dead. <span class="it">Casemate
could not return: but Chandos in Casemate’s
clothes could be seen in the porch. . . .</span></p>

<p class="pindent">And here another idea leaped into my mind.</p>

<p class="pindent">Casemate had been uneasy—had said so
in so many words. “I don’t like the ——
job.” Punter had done his utmost to lay his
fears, but the other would not be comforted,
rebutting each effort of Punter’s with some
unpleasant truth. More, Casemate clearly
believed that Jute had seen breakers ahead
and had left the ship. ‘And I don’t blame
him.’ Was it incredible, then, that Casemate
should follow Jute’s lead? Open the castle
gate, which he had to pass, slip out and up
to the wood and so wash his hands of a business
which he very plainly wished he never had
touched? Even if he were not seen going,
<span class="it">the open gate would account for his failure to
reappear</span>.</p>

<p class="pindent">In less than three minutes Casemate was
under the bed, and I was clad in his suit.
This was none too clean and something
tight; but I liked it better than his hat,
which fitted me very well.</p>

<p class="pindent">Now, though in this time much had
happened, it was barely a quarter of an hour
since Casemate had parted from Punter at
the head of the stair. I had, therefore, a very
good hope of suggesting that Casemate had
flitted before he was due to return: but our
hopes had so often foundered that, for all my
haste, I stole, like a thief, from the bedroom,
and went with my chin on my shoulder until
the passage gave way to a flight of stairs.</p>

<p class="pindent">So I came to the porch.</p>

<p class="pindent">The courtyard was empty, and so, to my
relief, was the roof. For a moment I found
this strange: then I remembered that, when
I had come to my senses, the rope which had
lain on the terrace was no longer there, and,
since without rope I could not descend from
a window, it was plainly needless to post a
sentinel.</p>

<p class="pindent">At once I whipped to the gate and drew the
great bolts. Then I set aside the shutter
which masked the grill and, after a glance
behind me, pulled the great leaf open and
stepped outside.</p>

<p class="pindent">I can never remember that moment without
emotion.</p>

<p class="pindent">The sparkle of the wet, green turf and the
brilliant foliage beyond, the gay singing of the
birds and the sweet smell of the earth filled
me with a sudden amazement, as though I
had clean forgotten that such things were.
Yet, only three days before, I had drunk my
fill of them. Which shows, I think, that the
burden of those three days was even more
exacting than we had guessed.</p>

<p class="pindent">When I looked back through the grill, there
was still no one to be seen; so, quick as a
flash, I slipped back into the porch and,
leaving the great door ajar, entered the doorway
which stood in the eastern wall.</p>

<p class="pindent">I was a little uneasy about the gate, for,
to serve my purpose, it should stay so much
open as to attract the eye; but this was the
very thing which Casemate, deserter, would
have done his best to avoid. Still, he could
have done no more than draw it to, and, even
while I stood thinking, the fresh north-westerly
breeze took the matter out of my hands.
At its instance the massive leaf began very
slowly to move and had very soon swung so
far that none that looked into the courtyard
could ever have missed its tale.</p>

<p class="pindent">Now all this was well enough: when his
fellows began to wonder where Casemate
could be, an excellent answer was staring
them in the face: but a sudden fear came
upon me lest Casemate himself should suddenly
come to his senses and, rising as it were from
the dead, offer a still better answer to his
inquisitive friends. Mansel had said that
he would be ‘safe’ for an hour; but it might
very well be that more than an hour would
elapse before we could afford to ignore the
chance of his coming to life. And here, for
the first time—fear, I suppose, breeding
fear—I began to grow uneasy about the
condition of things in the south-east tower.</p>

<p class="pindent">I glanced at my watch.</p>

<p class="pindent">Fifteen minutes had passed since I had sat
up on the terrace to find myself alone. Yet
there had been no action of any sort. I had
seen no movement and I had heard no sound.
We were four fit men to three, while the
enemy thought they were three to one dying
man. The odds were full in our favour.
Yet, though time was precious, no blow had
been struck.</p>

<p class="pindent">As I stood, biting my fingers, the answer
came into my mind. There was but one
explanation—the old familiar stile was still
barring our way. <span class="it">Neither Mansel nor George
nor the servants had been able to come between
‘Rose’ Noble and Adèle.</span> Close as they were
to this bourne, the other’s devilish instinct
was holding them up: and, until this relaxed
or the monster flew in its face, they dared
not move.</p>

<p class="pindent">Now that, I confess, was guesswork, but
this was clear. Could they have done it,
Mansel or George or both would have struck
fifteen minutes ago. They had not, because
they could not: and, if they could not then,
God alone knew how long they would have to
wait.</p>

<p class="pindent">And that brought me back to Casemate.
‘Safe for an hour.’ Why, two, three, six
hours might not be enough. . . .</p>

<p class="pindent">Now, though I could gag the man, I had
no cord: and without cord I could not bind
him as such a man should be bound. I,
therefore, opened the door in the eastern wall
of the archway in some hope of finding the
store-room to which Casemate had been
dispatched.</p>

<p class="pindent">The door led into a chamber which was
clearly the porter’s lodge.</p>

<p class="pindent">On either side of the window, which was
some way above the ground, were steps leading
up to two stalls, cut out of the wall, from
which the porters could comfortably watch
the spur. Facing the window was a door,
with a key in its lock. I guessed at once
that this led to the caretakers’ room, or, at
least, to the room in which they were now
confined, for I had no doubt that they had
been shut in their quarters, and these were
sure to be within sound of the gate. A third
door stood open, revealing a passage and
staircase, both of stone. . . .</p>

<p class="pindent">Five rooms I entered, but, though I rummaged
desperately, I could not light on so
much as a foot of cord, or, for the matter of
that, of any substitute. Not daring to wait
any longer, I decided to make my way back,
and, ripping the tick from a mattress, to tear
this into strips and bind Casemate with
those.</p>

<p class="pindent">I, therefore, hastened back to the porch,
but, before I crossed to the doorway in the
opposite wall, I naturally put out my head
to see that the coast was clear.</p>

<p class="pindent">The roof was empty, but, standing in the
courtyard, some ten or twelve paces away,
was an elderly man. His back was towards
me, but the cut of his clothes was not English,
and, when he moved his head, I could see
the shanks of spectacles resting above his
ears. He was plainly hot, for he had his hat
in his hand and was mopping his face, but he
looked about him placidly and with evident
relish, as a man who has made an effort and
is content with his reward.</p>

<p class="pindent">Then he turned suddenly about, and I
knew him at once.</p>

<p class="pindent">It was the bookseller of Lass.</p>

<hr class="tbk" />

<p class="pindent">To tell the truth, I was not greatly surprised.</p>

<p class="pindent">The guide the old fellow had written
showed very plainly his veneration for Gath:
when he kept holiday, therefore, that he
should visit the spur was natural enough:
and though to walk seven miles to look at a
castle wall may be the way of a zealot, I
imagine his tastes were simple and his
pleasures were few.</p>

<p class="pindent">And so he had come to the spur to look upon
Gath.</p>

<p class="pindent">Finding the gate open, he had naturally
seized the chance to make his way in and
once more enjoy a prospect from which he
had been lately debarred.</p>

<p class="pindent">But, if I was not surprised, I was considerably
moved.</p>

<p class="pindent">Such was the emplacement of the castle, so
thick was the wood that masked the spur and
so lonely was the country round about that
we had all come to ignore the chance of an
outsider’s entry upon the scene. This was
now, however, an accomplished fact. A
respectable citizen of Lass, an intelligent man,
well acquainted with Gath and with its
ownership, was actually within the walls and
must already have found the open gate and
the absence of any custodian matters for
serious remark. More. His eyes had only
to light upon George Hanbury, Bell or myself,
when his suspicions would be instantly
quickened by that most lively curiosity
which our use of his apartment at Lass and
our strange and precipitate departure must
have aroused.</p>

<p class="pindent">And here it seemed that Fortune was at
last inclining towards our part, for, while the
bookseller’s presence could do us no harm, the
last thing ‘Rose’ Noble desired was a witness
of what was afoot.</p>

<p class="pindent">Now all this swept through my mind in
a tenth of the time it has taken to set it down,
but right on the heels of this valueless
speculation came a fair, clean-cut idea, upon
which, for once, I had the good sense to
act without any hesitation or weighing of
odds.</p>

<p class="pindent">The bookseller had not seen me, but I
stepped out into his view. He looked very
much surprised, but, before he could speak,
I beckoned to him to follow and, crossing to
the opposite doorway, led the way to a corner
below some stairs.</p>

<p class="pindent">“Look at me well,” I whispered. “Have
you ever seen me before?”</p>

<p class="pindent">He replied directly that I was one of the
strangers that had made some use of the
parlour above his shop.</p>

<p class="pindent">“That’s right,” said I. “And now, before
I tell you how and why I come to be here,
answer me this. Would you like to help a
lady who goes in danger of death?”</p>

<p class="pindent">“I would indeed,” said the bookseller
stoutly enough.</p>

<p class="pindent">“Then listen,” said I.</p>

<p class="pindent">As shortly as ever I could, I told him a
few of the facts. He heard me solemnly,
with his big, blue eyes on my face.</p>

<p class="pindent">“So you see,” I said, in the end, “it’s a
business of life and death. You’re not safe
here. No one is: but a stranger, least of
all. I’d be very glad of your help, but I’m
bound to tell you that the only help you can
give will involve you in a terrible risk.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Thank you,” said the bookseller politely.
“Please tell me what I may do.”</p>

<p class="pindent">His calm firmness of purpose took me by
storm: of pure gratitude I could have gone
on my knees.</p>

<p class="pindent">“In the first place,” said I, “you’re a
doctor—remember that. A doctor out for
the day. Hanbury met you in the road at
the end of the drive. You can describe him,
can’t you? The man who bought <span class="it">Alison’s
Europe</span> and borrowed your coat and hat.
Very well. He asked you if you knew of a
doctor, and when he heard you were one he
begged you to come here at once. He said
that you’d find the gate open and told you
how to get to the south-east tower. There,
he said, was a man very grievously hurt.</p>

<p class="pindent">“Now that is the tale you will tell, when you
get to the room: but, before you get so far,
I think the fat man you find there will have
rushed upstairs to the roof. The ‘open gate’
will fetch him, if nothing else. If he stays
where he is, please pretend to examine the
man who is lying hurt: take off his coat and
shirt and feel his spine: then announce that
his back is broken, but that, if he lies flat and
still, he may possibly live. Then ask the fat
man if he will kindly see if your son has
arrived: say that <span class="it">he was to follow you here as
soon as he’d changed his tire</span>. That’ll move
the fat man all right. You see we’ve got to
get him out of the tower.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Sir,” said the bookseller gravely, “it
shall be done.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“It’s a dangerous game,” said I. “If he
thinks that you’re lying, the fat man will
shoot you dead.”</p>

<p class="pindent">The old fellow smiled.</p>

<p class="pindent">“I am old,” he said simply. “And lonely.
Since my wife was dead, I do not much value
my life. But you and your lady are young.
. . . And, besides, I do not think he will
think I am lying—this fat man of yours.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“He’s pretty shrewd,” said I.</p>

<p class="pindent">“Let us go, please,” said the bookseller,
settling his hat on his head. . . .</p>

<p class="pindent">We had almost reached the guard-room
and I had stopped to listen for any sound,
when I heard the scamper of feet upon the
roof.</p>

<p class="pindent">The murder was out, and Punter or Bunch
was running to shut the gate.</p>

<p class="pindent">Mercifully the door of the bedroom in
which I had hidden Casemate was less than
ten paces away, so I opened it quickly and
thrust the bookseller in. As I closed it behind
me, I heard a flurry of footsteps and the clack
of the guard-room wicket flung back against
the wall.</p>

<p class="pindent">Now, as I have said, the guard-room’s
floor was of stone; but the floor of the passage
which followed was of oak boards that had
been polished and highly waxed: and, since
whoever was coming was running as fast as
he could, I was not surprised that so soon as
he left the guard-room and trod the oak, he
slipped and lost his footing and took the
deuce of a fall.</p>

<p class="pindent">For a moment there was dead silence.
Then I heard Punter’s voice.</p>

<p class="pindent">If he omitted any blasphemies, I cannot
think what they were: he stayed quite still,
vomiting a stream of imprecation and only
interrupting his recital to groan with pain.</p>

<p class="pindent">In the midst I heard other steps coming, and
almost at once Bunch spoke.</p>

<p class="pindent">“What’s up?” said he. “Took a toss?”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Oh, no,” said Punter shakily. “Just
’avin’ a lil lay down. ‘Toss,’ you gentle ——?
I wish I’d got the —— that shined these
boards.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“It’s comin’ after the stones,” said Bunch
sententiously. “That’s wot it is. You nips
off of the stones on to——”</p>

<p class="pindent">“My God,” screeched Punter, “don’t I
know what you does? Ain’t I jus’ done it,
you ——?”</p>

<p class="pindent">“All right, all right,” said Bunch soothingly.
“But you ain’t broke nothing, an’ wot about
shuttin’ the gate?”</p>

<p class="pindent">“—— the gate,” said Punter. “<span class="it">An’</span>
Casemate—the dirty swine. I knew the ——
was windy, but I never dreamed he was down
to doin’ a bunk.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“That’s Jute,” said Bunch. “ ’E would
’ave it Jute ’ad beat it, an’ ’e thought the
devil o’ Jute.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“God knows why,” said Punter bitterly.
“It’s Jute tore everything up. If ’e ’adn’t
let Mansel bounce ’im, we’d ’ve been in Paris
by now—’avin’ our breakfast in bed, with
our cheque books under our arms. ’Alf a
million o’ money, an’ nothin’ said. An’
now you can ’ave my bit for a double
Scotch.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“ ’E ain’t dead yet,” said Bunch.</p>

<p class="pindent">“He’s broke his back,” said Punter. “Rose
knows it better than us.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Then, why’s ’e waitin’?” said Bunch.
“Sittin’ there like a —— policeman by the
side o’ the bed?”</p>

<p class="pindent">“You can search me,” said Punter. “I
don’ think ’e knows ’imself. But it’s no
good sayin’ nothin’—’e’s just black ice. I
thought the goods was dead when she slipped
’er cuff.”</p>

<p class="pindent">There was a gloomy silence.</p>

<p class="pindent">Then——</p>

<p class="pindent">“Come on,” said Bunch. “Best shut that
—— gate.”</p>

<p class="pindent">The other got to his feet, and the two
passed on.</p>

<p class="pindent">I could hardly believe my ears when I heard
the two of them making towards the porch.
Here was a stroke of luck for which I had
never hoped. And then I saw with a shock
how wretched a plotter I was, for, with Punter
and Bunch to waylay him, the ‘doctor’ would
never have won to the room in which Mansel
lay.</p>

<p class="pindent">The bookseller was speaking.</p>

<p class="pindent">“I have understood nothing,” he said:
“only ‘Rose’ is your lady’s name.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“All slang,” said I. “Thieves’ talk.
Never mind,” and, with that, I opened the
door.</p>

<p class="pindent">Swiftly we passed through the guard-room
and climbed the winding stair which led to
the roof.</p>

<p class="pindent">This was empty, and, now that I could see
all around, seemed like the pleasance of some
god-philosopher, whence he could watch and
contemplate the world. The place did not
seem like a roof, but like a gigantic terrace,
hung in the air. Even the chimney-stacks
could not disturb this illusion, for they had
no chimney-pots and might have been great
pedestals ready for statuary which had not
yet been done. Indeed, the extraordinary
prospect troubled my head, and I felt suddenly
dizzy and the palms of my hands grew wet.</p>

<p class="pindent">The sun was high now, and the shadow of
the south-east tower lay sharp upon the flags.
The stacks, too, threw their shadows and the
battlements made a pattern along the side.</p>

<p class="pindent">As I was peering, I heard the hollow clap
of the castle gate. . . .</p>

<p class="pindent">A moment later we were standing by the
door of the south-east tower.</p>

<p class="pindent">“I’m afraid I can’t tell you,” I breathed,
“which room they’ll be in: but I think you’ll
find it leads out of the ‘gallery of stone.’ ”</p>

<p class="pindent">The bookseller nodded, and I put out my
hand.</p>

<p class="pindent">This seemed to please him, for he took it
in both of his. Then he put his mouth to my
ear.</p>

<p class="pindent">“I go,” he whispered, “to betray the
violator of Gath.”</p>

<p class="pindent">Then he adjusted his spectacles, nodded,
smiled and disappeared.</p>

<p class="pindent">Now, if I had had a pistol, I should have
stayed by the door, to kill ‘Rose’ Noble as he
stepped on to the roof. But my pistol had been
taken, and Casemate had carried no arms. I
certainly had my knife, but I dared not trust
my handling of such a weapon to make an
end of such a man. I have often thought
since that here I made a mistake and that I
should have stabbed the monster as he came
out of the door, but up to that day I had never
done any worse violence than knock a man
down with my fist, and I was frankly afraid
of making a mess of the business and thereby
wrecking the ship which I was trying to
steer.</p>

<p class="pindent">I, therefore, whipped to the nearest chimney-stack
and crouched, with this between
me and the south-east tower. This stack was
to be my shield. As ‘Rose’ Noble came by,
I would move, keeping it always directly
between him and me, and, when he was by,
I would dash for the south-east tower. Once
within, I had but to shut the door and shoot
the bolts to bring us over the bar which had
balked us so long. The rest would be child’s
play. If five men armed could not break out
at their pleasure. . . . It occurred to me
suddenly that, if there was no way by the
chapel, Mansel would bring out Adèle through
the Dining-room floor.</p>

<p class="pindent">Looking back, I find it curious that I should
have had no doubt that ‘Rose’ Noble would
come up to the roof. That nine men out of
ten would have done so is nothing at all.
‘Rose’ Noble was the tenth man in all that
he did. I cannot pay him a higher compliment.
Yet I never had any doubt that,
once my decoy was in action, our enemy would
fall into the pit which I had digged. I was
as certain of this as if I had seen it written
among the orders of Fate. This by the grace of
God, for upon that certainty was founded the
whole of my simple plan and, had I stopped to
consider how bold was my postulate, I am
sure that my judgment would have faltered
and that I should have abandoned my design
as out of reason.</p>

<p class="pindent">‘Rose’ Noble came up quietly, without
any haste. Had I not been expecting to
hear them, I should not have heard his steps.
I had thought that he would come running
and crying for Punter or Bunch. But he
did not. Rather he seemed to be prowling,
like some suspicious beast.</p>

<p class="pindent">For a moment he paused on the opposite
side of my stack, for all the world as though
he had heard me move. Then he went on his
way to the south-west tower.</p>

<p class="pindent">I let him take ten paces. Then I rounded
the stack and made my dash for the door.</p>

<p class="pindent">And here, I think, my heart stood suddenly
still.</p>

<p class="pindent"><span class="it">The door was shut: and when I lifted the
latch, I found it was barred.</span></p>

<p class="pindent">For an instant I stared at it blankly. Then
the truth rose up in a blinding flash.</p>

<p class="pindent"><span class="it">Knowing nothing of me, Mansel had followed
‘Rose’ Noble up the stair and had played my
hand before I could play it myself.</span></p>

<p class="pindent">The game was won—over: Adèle was
saved: ‘Rosæ’ Noble had been ‘caught
bending’: <span class="it">and so had I</span>.</p>

<hr class="tbk" />

<p class="pindent">A slight noise made me look round.</p>

<p class="pindent">‘Rose’ Noble was standing, glaring, six
paces away.</p>

<p class="pindent">His face was working and his hand in his
jacket-pocket was twitching with wrath. I
think that he would have spoken, for twice
he opened his mouth; but his fury must have
choked him, for, though he gaped upon me, the
words seemed stuck in his throat.</p>

<p class="pindent">He was never a pleasant sight, but, so
transfigured, he made as dreadful a picture
as ever I saw, and I must confess that, as I
looked upon him, my blood ran cold.</p>

<p class="pindent">I was sure he was going to kill me, if only
to serve his rage, for he knew as well as
did I who it was that had shut the door and
that Mansel, while he lay at his mercy, had
bluffed him into discarding a winning hand.
Indeed, had he guessed that George and the
servants were actually in the tower, he would
I believe, have shot me down like a dog:
but, as the moments went by, yet he did not
fire, I began to believe that he had still some
hope of saving the game, and, since I was
plainly his prisoner, had decided to hold me
alive to his future use.</p>

<p class="pindent">In a word, I was pretty desperate: but the
thought of the part I had played in bringing
him down did my heart good, and, what is
more, it served to steady my nerves and to
set my brain working to see if I could not
hold out until help should come.</p>

<p class="pindent">I folded my arms, leaned against the wall
of the tower and waited for ‘Rose’ Noble
to speak.</p>

<p class="pindent">At length—</p>

<p class="pindent">“How did you get here?” he said.</p>

<p class="pindent">“Thanks to Hanbury,” said I. “He
opened the passage door.”</p>

<p class="pindent">In a flash he had me by the collar and a
pistol was hurting my ribs.</p>

<p class="pindent">“March,” he said thickly.</p>

<p class="pindent">Together we crossed the roof and entered
the opposite tower. Then we went down
the stair to the ‘gallery of stone.’ He held
me to the wall with the pistol, while he bolted
the passage door. An instant later we were
back on the roof.</p>

<p class="pindent">“How did you come by those clothes?”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Mine were wet,” said I. “And, as
Casemate didn’t need them——”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Why didn’t he need them?”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Because Hanbury had laid him out.”</p>

<p class="pindent">The man’s eyes burned in his head. They
seemed to be striving to bore their way into
my brain. Though he suspected it deeply,
he could find no fault in my tale.</p>

<p class="pindent">After a little he stepped to the balustrade.</p>

<p class="pindent">“Bunch! Punter!” he roared.</p>

<p class="pindent">For a moment he stood still, waiting: then
he leaned over the stone.</p>

<p class="pindent">“Come here,” he cried.</p>

<p class="pindent">Again he waited, like a great beast about
to spring.</p>

<p class="pindent">“Look in that —— kitchen and see if it’s
all O.K.”</p>

<p class="pindent">There was a moment’s silence: then I
heard a scared voice.</p>

<p class="pindent">“ ’E’s gone!” cried Punter.</p>

<p class="pindent">‘Rose’ Noble drew himself up and turned
to me.</p>

<p class="pindent">“Where’s Hanbury now?”</p>

<p class="pindent">“I don’t know,” said I. “He went to get
the servants, but he hasn’t come back.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Why not?” said ‘Rose’ Noble.</p>

<p class="pindent">“I don’t know,” said I. “I was waiting
to let them in, when the doctor appeared.
So I left the gate open and came straight up
to the roof.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“I shouldn’t lie,” said ‘Rose’ Noble.</p>

<p class="pindent">Before I could answer, Punter appeared on
the roof.</p>

<p class="pindent">“ ‘Rose,’ ” he said, “Casemate’s——”</p>

<p class="pindent">There he saw me and stopped dead, with
his mouth and his eyes wide open and a hand
half way to his head.</p>

<p class="pindent">Grimly ‘Rose’ Noble surveyed him.</p>

<p class="pindent">“Well, what of Casemate?” he said.</p>

<p class="pindent">Dazedly Punter regarded him. Then he
pointed to me.</p>

<p class="pindent">“ ’E’s done ’im in,” he said stupidly.
“Look at ’is —— soot.”</p>

<p class="pindent">The wretched man was plainly thinking
aloud, but ‘Rose’ Noble was not in the mood
to receive such gifts. He did not actually
strike him, but he took him by the shoulders
and shook him, till he wore the colour of
death and I really thought that his brains
must be loose in his head. Then he flung
him away against the wall of the tower and,
using a frightful oath, demanded the truth.</p>

<p class="pindent">At first Punter could not speak. Then he
put a hand to his temples and moistened his
lips.</p>

<p class="pindent">“I thought he’d beat it,” he faltered.
“When I saw the —— gate open——”</p>

<p class="pindent">“When was this?”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Why, jus’ now,” said Punter. “I’d only
that moment shut it, when you called down.”</p>

<p class="pindent">‘Rose’ Noble was plainly uncertain what
to think.</p>

<p class="pindent">My tale was unlikely enough, but the facts
bore it out. That I should have quitted the
porch before George and the servants were
safely within the castle seemed to him a
mistake which not even a child would have
made. Yet, if they were truly within, a child
would have had the good sense to shut the
gate. Of these two incredible conclusions he
did not know which to choose, and, as I
watched his teeth at work on his lower lip,
I was elated to think that I had contrived to
embarrass so subtle a brain.</p>

<p class="pindent">My triumph was short-lived.</p>

<p class="pindent">“I guess Hanbury’s only two hands—and
those were fast. How did you make the
kitchen out of that flat?”</p>

<p class="pindent">The thrust was so unexpected that I could
only stare.</p>

<p class="pindent">“Speak up, you young fool,” said ‘Rose’
Noble. “I saw the way he was tied.”</p>

<p class="pindent">I swallowed desperately. Lest Mansel
should mean to use it, I dared not reveal the
fact that the table sank through the floor.</p>

<p class="pindent">“Out of the window,” I said, “when the
servants attacked. I went into the kitchen
for shelter and found him there.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Why didn’t Mansel go with you?”</p>

<p class="pindent">“He hadn’t time,” said I. “The light was
back on the windows before he could follow
me down.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“You knew the servants were there. Why
didn’t you go to the porch and let them in?”</p>

<p class="pindent">“I tried to,” said I. “But I didn’t dare
show a light and I couldn’t undo the bolts.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“But you did in the end,” said ‘Rose’
Noble, rubbing his nose. “That’s why that
attack was a washout. You whistled ’em
down from the roof and handed them in. Are
you sure you got out by the window?”</p>

<p class="pindent">A sudden belief that the man was playing
with me sent the blood to my head. In a
trice I had lost my temper and found my
tongue.</p>

<p class="pindent">“Have it your own way,” said I. “It
won’t be for long. I may have played the
hand badly, but I’ve made the odd trick.
You’re the wrong side of the door, and we can
afford to wait. That doctor comes out of
Lass, and, if he’s not back by sundown, I
fancy his friends and relations will wonder
why.”</p>

<p class="pindent">Now, if this was all Greek to Punter, it
was so much gall to his chief. Servants
within or without, so long as Mansel sat still,
he could not act, and, unless he acted quickly,
the chance would pass. The stranger within
the gates had set the sand-glass up, and the
grains which had lain so long idle had now
begun to run. And nothing on earth could
stop them. Happen what might, before many
hours were over tongues would be wagging
and eyes would be turning to Gath. Before
any steps were taken, if ‘Rose’ Noble
valued his freedom, he would be wise to be
gone.</p>

<p class="pindent">But, if I had stung him, the monster gave
no sign.</p>

<p class="pindent">“Yes,” he said slowly, “I guess I shall
have it my way.”</p>

<p class="pindent">The words were softly spoken, but his tone
was so dark and so sinister that I found them
more disturbing than any explosion of wrath.
Indeed, his whole demeanour seemed to have
changed: the red heat of passion was gone,
and, in its stead, a coldness which was not
human possessed this terrible man. And, if
that did not show me, the next ten minutes
declared why men endured his service and
went in fear of his name.</p>

<p class="pindent">He never once used an oath or two words
where one would serve, and, if a sign could
take the place of an order, he made a sign.
He never hesitated or gave any sort of reason
for the commands he gave; himself he did
nothing and seemed to be oblivious of what
was done, yet, when Bunch was about to gag
me, he had knocked me down before I knew
myself that my hand had instinctively moved
towards my knife. No Pharaoh could have
been more imperious, no beast so vigilant,
nothing but a statue could have stood so
still and cold. What was far more, the man
compelled belief. That I had duped him was
forgotten: if he said ‘Shut that door,’ I knew
that to leave it open would have been a fatal
mistake: he gave the impression of providing
for what was coming to pass: from his orders
alone you could foretell the future, till
looking ahead seemed as simple as looking
back. Little wonder that Bunch and Punter
hung on his lips. . . .</p>

<p class="pindent">Casemate was found and heartily soused
with water in a hope of bringing him to, but
Mansel had struck too well, and after a little
they left him to fare as best he could. I was
gagged and my wrists were tightly bound.
Food and wine were packed in a battered
bag and, without passing through the porch,
we left by a lower window and gained the
spur.</p>

<p class="pindent">This was of course, the window by which
Hanbury had been brought in. The middle
bar could be lifted, so that a man could
pass. The contrivance was simple, but none
from without could have reached the plate,
like a damper, which locked the bar into
place.</p>

<p class="pindent">With never a look behind him, ‘Rose’
Noble passed up the spur and into the drive.
Once out of sight of the castle, he turned to
the right and, plunging into the thicket,
swung back towards the castle, till he came to
a little hollow, sunk in the midst of bushes
and overspread with the branches of the
surrounding trees.</p>

<p class="pindent">We were now on the fringe of the wood,
and I could see the castle between the leaves:
the drive was ten paces away and the spur
but three, but, while we commanded both,
a man must have stumbled upon us before
he knew we were there.</p>

<p class="pindent">‘Rose’ Noble pushed back his hat and lit
a cigar.</p>

<p class="pindent">Then——</p>

<p class="pindent">“Watch,” he said shortly and flung himself
down on the turf.</p>

<p class="pindent">Without a word, Bunch wriggled into the
foliage, until he could see the spur, while
Punter opened the bag and began to eat. Of
me they took no notice, and, since it seemed
idle to stand, I sat myself down. This
miserably enough, for my bodily state was
wretched and my heart was heavy as lead. If
ever a man ‘meant business,’ ‘Rose’ Noble
was he, and there was death in the hollow for
whoever came up to the drive. Carson was
doomed: the cars were as good as gone:
and I was the wretched decoy to draw
Mansel out of the castle and into the snare.
I could see it all coming as clearly as though
it were past and could do no more to prevent
it than one of those careless butterflies that
we had passed on the spur.</p>

<p class="pindent">Presently I laid down my head and stared
at the sky.</p>

<p class="pindent">At least the place was lovely, and the day
as fine and smooth as a day could be. The
fluting of birds and the steady hum of insects
soothed the ear: and the wet grass was cool
and fragrant against my cheek.</p>

<p class="pindent">My head was aching, and I was parched
with thirst: the gag was most hard on
my jaws, and my wrists were already sore:
but I was very tired, and, since Nature
is a governess not easily put about, the
murmur of the insects grew more and more
slumberous, and, after a little space, I fell
asleep.</p>

<hr class="tbk" />

<p class="pindent">“I reckon he’s sweating,” said ‘Rose’
Noble.</p>

<p class="pindent">I was wide awake in an instant. With the
tail of my eye I could see that, except that
Bunch was eating and Punter had taken his
place, nothing had changed.</p>

<p class="pindent">“Sweating blood,” said ‘Rose’ Noble.
“One Willie up on the drop, and, unless he
gets a move on, the other walks into our arms
as soon as it’s dark.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Complete with car,” said Bunch, licking
his lips.</p>

<p class="pindent">‘Rose’ Noble shrugged his shoulders.</p>

<p class="pindent">“Maybe,” he said. “But I guess they’ll
give us the cars before we’re through.”</p>

<p class="pindent">Punter looked down from his post on the
lip of the dell.</p>

<p class="pindent">“He can lay to meeting ’is Gawd, if he
comes out.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“That’s why he’s sweating,” said ‘Rose’
Noble. “This —— garden’s all right from
the castle wall, but it’s just a shade too wild
for a good close-up.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Suicide ’All,” said Bunch. “But ’e
won’t ’ave a dart by daylight. ’E knows——”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Yes, he will,” said ‘Rose’ Noble. “He’ll
never wait ten hours, while his Willies are
getting wet. He’ll bring two o’ the servants
with him, an’ they’ll come right up in a line.”</p>

<p class="pindent">Punter looked round.</p>

<p class="pindent">“Didn’t we ought to spread, Rose?”</p>

<p class="pindent">The other shook his head.</p>

<p class="pindent">“Stop one, an’ you stop the lot. Say we
lay out a servant—well, what’ll Big Willie
do? Fall on his —— stomach an’ pray to
God. He’s only the wood to shoot at, an’
he’s three down instead of two. An’ that’s
when we move. By the time he’s got his
soul straight, I guess I’ll be ready to flip a
fly off his nose.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“You don’ wan’ to kill ’im,” said Bunch.
“If you——”</p>

<p class="pindent">“ ‘Kill him?’ ” breathed ‘Rose’ Noble.
“ ‘Kill him?’ ” I could hear him suck in
his breath. “No, I’m not going to kill him.
And if I were you, I wouldn’t so much as
loose off, if you see his face—<span class="it">in case you killed
him</span>, for, if you did, by ——, I’d feed your
tripe to a mongrel before your eyes.”</p>

<p class="pindent">A prudent silence succeeded this horrid
threat, which was not so much spoken as
snarled and suggested a return of the temper
with which the monster was ridden a while
before. For my part, I would have welcomed
that cold, black mood, for now his manner
argued a confidence so rich and ripe and lazy
as made me twice as hopeless as I had been
before.</p>

<p class="pindent">“I’m going to sell him,” said ‘Rose’
Noble. “Hang him up on a wall of that
court—expose him for sale . . . with a
bucket on either foot—the way they made
‘Poky’ remember the name of his ‘bank.’
If he won’t buy himself in, I guess the Willies’ll
think when they see the weights. An’
before we reach the reserve, I guess the goods
will ask him to change his mind.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“But see here, Rose,” said Punter. “They
won’t ’ave the cash to pay with, an’ ’ow can
we wait? That blasted chemist——”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Who wants to wait?” said ‘Rose’
Noble. “I’ll take their —— word. Oh, I
guess they’ve got false bottoms, the same as
anyone else. I wouldn’t trust Mansel a foot—if
none of his like could hear. But let one
of ’em pass his word <span class="it">in front of his —— kind</span>,
an’ he hasn’t the spunk to break it for fear
they’ll think he’s a swab. That’s what they
mean when they talk of <span class="it">Noblesse Oblige</span>; if you
want plain English, <span class="it">Don’ let ’em see your dirt</span>.”</p>

<p class="pindent">The venom with which he uttered this
ugly argument declared the deadly hatred he
bore us all, and I could not help wondering
what was the fellow’s history, for he had a
commanding presence and was by no means
common, as Punter and Bunch, while his
speech was constantly betraying a considerable
education which for some unaccountable
reason he seemed to despise.</p>

<p class="pindent">Punter took a deep breath.</p>

<p class="pindent">“This time to-morrow,” he said, “we’ll be
on the —— road.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Out of the country, you mean, and
pushing for France.”</p>

<p class="pindent">Bunch looked up from his victuals.</p>

<p class="pindent">“Wot price the Customs?” he said.
“I’ll shift the —— Rolls, but there’s photos
stuck on to ’er papers, an’ I don’ wan’ to be
asked why I’m drivin’ a stolen car.”</p>

<p class="pindent">‘Rose’ Noble yawned.</p>

<p class="pindent">“I guess we’ll give one of the Willies a
lift to France. They’ll have to go back to
London to raise the wind. An’ he’ll put us
through the Customs—if we remember to
ask him while Mansel’s up on the wall.”</p>

<p class="pindent">Punter spoke over his shoulder.</p>

<p class="pindent">“What ‘Poky’ was that you mentioned?
There was a ‘Poky’ Barrett I saw in a Boston
bar. But he, was a little old screw, with a
jerky leg.”</p>

<p class="pindent">‘Rose’ Noble laughed.</p>

<p class="pindent">“ ‘Poky’ Barrett,” he said, “is forty-two.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Go on,” said Punter, incredulously.</p>

<p class="pindent">“Forty-two,” said ‘Rose’ Noble. “But
he had . . . an illness . . . not quite seven
years ago . . .”</p>

<p class="pindent">Somehow I got to my knees and tried to
speak.</p>

<p class="pindent">The three watched me curiously.</p>

<p class="pindent">I threw myself down and rubbed my head
on the ground in a wild endeavour to tear the
gag from my mouth. I heard Punter laugh
and say something about a dog. The attempt
exhausted me and was utterly vain. When I
got again to my knees, my face was streaming
with sweat.</p>

<p class="pindent">‘Rose’ Noble looked at me and lifted his
lids.</p>

<p class="pindent">“An illness,” he said softly. “Some people
might say ‘an attack.’ It changed him . . .
unbelievably. . . . And the jerky leg came
on about the same time. You see, when he
wouldn’t answer, <span class="it">somebody happened to touch
his sciatic nerve</span>.”</p>

<p class="pindent">With a bursting head, I flung myself back
on the turf. . . .</p>

<p class="pindent">I can never describe the agony of that
hour.</p>

<p class="pindent">I knew that Mansel would come, and I
knew he would come before dark. He would
never wait for ten hours before starting to my
relief: and Carson had to be saved from
walking clean into a trap. He had not rope
enough to go by the cliff—the spur was his only
way. And so he would come . . . by daylight
. . . up to the wood . . . If he came,
he was doomed. He could be seen approaching
for two hundred yards or more, and no
cunning would ever avail him against an
ambuscade. There was no scope for cunning.
The wood was dense, while, except for four
or five trees, the spur was bare. I had no
hope for him, and, if I had, ‘Rose’ Noble’s
air would have killed it, for he, the soul of
prudence, was awaiting his enemy’s coming
with his hands, so to speak, in his pockets
and his sword in the rack.</p>

<p class="pindent">Of what was to follow his wounding, I
tried not to think.</p>

<p class="pindent">Whoever was with him would be taken,
alive or dead: and Carson would walk into
the shambles soon after the sun had set.
With me for spokesman, those that were left
in the castle would be apprised of the truth,
and no doubt, at dawn the next day Adèle
and Hanbury and I would be pleading with
prayers and fortunes for the life of a broken
man. And so the play would finish—in a
welter of blood and tears. Redress was not
to be thought of: the chances of vengeance
would not be worth taking up. Then The
Law would step in, pick over the ghastly
business, madden us all with its ritual, ask
unanswerable questions and believe what it
chose. A hideous publicity would follow:
the names of Adèle and Mansel would be in
everyone’s mouth: reporters would cluster
round Poganec: char-à-bancs would be run to
The Castle of Gath. . . .</p>

<p class="pindent">In this affliction of spirit I again and again
forgot my bodily distress. This was as well,
for the gag choked me and had broken the
sides of my mouth, my wrists seemed to be on
fire, the pain in my head was raging, and I
might have been covered with blankets, so
fast was I streaming with sweat. At times
I made sure I was sickening for some disease,
but I think that it was the tightness as well
of my clothing as my bonds which joined with
the heat of the day, not only made me so hot,
but caused my blood to rebel against such
usage.</p>

<p class="pindent">Bunch drained his bottle of wine and lay
down to sleep. Before he did so, he took a
scarf from his pocket and bound my feet, and
so put out the spark of hope I had cherished
that, when the moment came, I could hurl
myself into the bushes and betray his
danger to Mansel by means of the noise I
made.</p>

<p class="pindent">‘Rose’ Noble was speaking.</p>

<p class="pindent">“I guess you’ll remember to-day. It’ll
spoil the greenwood for you for the rest
of your life. When you see the sun on the
leaves and you hear the birds piping around,
I guess you’ll remember to-day, and, when
you remember, I reckon you’ll wish it was
raining and that the boughs were bare.</p>

<p class="pindent">“May be it’ll learn you something that
they don’t teach at Oxford or the schools for
pretty, young boys. <span class="it">Stick to your —— last.
Live an’ let live.</span> If somebody pulls your
nose, go to the police. Keep your ——
tadpoles, an’ watch ’em turn into frogs, but
leave the deep-sea fishing to them that
know. . . .</p>

<p class="pindent">“When Mansel climbed into that strongbox,
he cut his throat. <span class="it">He gave me this wood
for the taking</span>—just the kind of dam-fool
error a squirt like Mansel would make. The
poor trash couldn’t see that, if ever it got to
a dog-fight, <span class="it">the —— that had this thicket was
bound to win</span>.”</p>

<p class="pindent">If the fellow’s words enraged me, I think
that they angered him.</p>

<p class="pindent">He knew as well as did I that we could not
have taken the castle and held the wood as
well and that Mansel had had to stake all
upon freeing Adèle: he knew that Mansel
had taken trick after trick, though the game
was not of his choosing and every card was
marked—<span class="it">that Mansel could still win the odd
. . . and the game and the rubber and all . . .
if he would but sit still in the castle and let
Carson and me take our chance.</span> He had
sought to belittle the man who in fourteen
days had achieved what ‘Rose’ Noble himself
had believed three impossible feats, first of
all finding a needle out of a bottle of hay,
then seizing a very bastille and, finally,
plucking his lady out of the lion’s mouth.
He had sought to diminish Mansel, and he
had failed, because the facts were against
him and he had no sort of material with
which to build his case. This poverty made
him wroth, and, could he have called back
his words, I think he would. But since he
could not, he started to curse and swear,
reviling Mansel in filthy and blasphemous
terms and working himself into a very
passion, because, I fancy, he knew that with
every execration he was, so to speak, but
further exposing his sores.</p>

<p class="pindent">Throughout this exhibition, Bunch was
pretending slumber, and Punter never moved,
whilst I, of course, lay as I was, for, now that
my feet were bound, I could not stir.</p>

<p class="pindent">At last the storm blew itself out, and, after
a decent silence, ‘Rose’ Noble turned to the
future and left the past.</p>

<p class="pindent">“I guess Jute’ll bite his thumbs, when he
finds we’re gone.”</p>

<p class="pindent">Bunch propped himself on an elbow and
let out an oath.</p>

<p class="pindent">“Serve ’im —— well right,” he spouted,
“the dirty goat. Sits down in that crooked
village an’ leaves us to get the wet. I know ’is
—— idea of keepin’ the background warm.
Oysters an’ girls an’ movies an’ a skinful
every night.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“He had his orders,” said ‘Rose’ Noble,
“an’ he’s broken ’em twice. If he’d done as
I told him, we shouldn’t have had this fuss.
But maybe it’s as well. It don’t amuse me
to suckle an insubordinate —— that’s let me
down.”</p>

<p class="pindent">This definite intimation that no claim by
Jute would be paid was greeted by Punter
and Bunch with the highest glee, partly, no
doubt, because each was expecting to profit
by such a rule, but mainly, I think, because
they detested Jute and the thought of his
losing his share did their hearts good. Indeed,
had they known the truth—that Jute was no
longer alive to lodge his claim, they could
not have been better pleased. They crowed
and giggled like children, abused the dead
man with a relish which must have made him
turn in his grave, and showed an impatience
for action which all their approaching welfare
had failed to inspire.</p>

<p class="pindent">Punter shook his fist at the castle and cried
aloud.</p>

<p class="pindent">“Come out, you one-legged ——, and
take your gruel.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Easy now,” said ‘Rose’ Noble. “He
knows that he’s for the high jump, and I
guess you’d straighten your tie before buying
that hop.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Rose,” says Bunch, all of a twitter,
“are you sure we’d better not spread? You
know. Just in case——”</p>

<p class="pindent">‘Rose’ Noble sat up.</p>

<p class="pindent">“If and when I say so, but not before.
What the hell’s the use of spreading before
they show up? Or even then?”</p>

<p class="pindent">“None whatever,” said Mansel.</p>

<p class="pindent">Then a shot was fired just behind me, and
‘Rose’ Noble fell back, staring, with the
blood running into his eyes.</p>

<hr class="tbk" />

<p class="pindent">Himself, Mansel unbound me and took the
gag from my mouth, while Carson and Bell,
who were with him, stood covering Punter
and Bunch—in a way, a needless precaution,
for the two seemed stupefied and gazed about
them slowly, as though they had just been
translated into another world. And so, I
suppose, in a sense, they had been, for ‘Rose’
Noble was stone dead, shot through the
brain.</p>

<p class="pindent">When he saw the state of my mouth,
Mansel drew in his breath. Then his hands
went under my arms, and he lifted me up.</p>

<p class="pindent">There was a rill in the wood—we had
heard the fuss of its water, whenever we
used the drive. This we sought in silence,
for I was past speaking, and Mansel held his
tongue. Indeed, he had his hands full, for
though I could walk, I had lost my sense of
balance and but for his arms, must have
fallen a score of times.</p>

<p class="pindent">The water revived me, but, when I would
have spoken, Mansel stopped me at once.</p>

<p class="pindent">“All in good time,” said he. “Those
swine must be disposed of, and the cord’s
way back with the cars. You will stay here
and rest, and I’ll come back and find you as
soon as ever I can.”</p>

<p class="pindent">With that, he was gone, and I turned again
to the water and drank my fill. . . .</p>

<p class="pindent">After a little, I lay back and gazed at the
sky.</p>

<p class="pindent">To tell the truth, I was thankful to be alone.</p>

<p class="pindent">I had been just as much shaken as Punter
and Bunch, and the world seemed out of
focus to my labouring brain.</p>

<p class="pindent">One moment the enemy was rampant, and
the next ‘Rose’ Noble was dead: before
he had left the castle, Mansel had appeared
in the wood: the inevitable had not happened,
the impossible come to pass.</p>

<p class="pindent">More than once an absurd fear seized me
that it was all a dream, and, indeed, I was
still uneasy when I heard a comfortable
sound—the sigh of one of the Rolls.</p>

<p class="pindent">Ten minutes later Tester was licking my
face. . . .</p>

<p class="pindent">“It’s very simple,” said Mansel, filling a
pipe. “The whole of the credit is yours.
You cut the Gordian knot: and when,
because of my failure, our case was ten times
worse than it had been before, you pulled
the whole show round and did the trick.”</p>

<p class="pindent">To this I demurred, but he brushed my
protests aside.</p>

<p class="pindent">“Listen,” he said. “They carried me in
and laid me down on a bed in the middle
room of the tower. They took my pistol
and knife, locked them up in a cupboard and
took the key. <span class="it">Then they locked every door,
except the door to the roof and that of the room
in which I lay.</span> Well, that washed out George
and the servants, for they were in the oratory,
very properly biding their time. Then they
handcuffed Adèle to my bed-post, and, when
she slipped out of the cuff, they clipped her
ankle instead. Then ‘Rose’ Noble sat down
and watched me—from a chair at the foot
of the bed. Adèle told me afterwards that
he never took his hand from his pocket or
his eyes from my face. . . . If you can conceive
a tighter place than that, I’d like to
hear what it is.</p>

<p class="pindent">“Well, the ‘doctor’ appeared, and, before
he’d said thirty words, ‘Rose’ Noble was
out of the room. When I rose to follow,
Adèle almost bent it again. She started up,
forgetting her ankle was fast to the leg of the
bed. I just managed to catch her in time. . . .</p>

<p class="pindent">“I shut the door to the roof and started
to look for the keys. I found them at last,
high up in a niche in the wall. Then I
unlocked the doors. I had no idea where
George and the servants were, and, as luck
would have it, I tried the oratory last. Not
until then did I go back to the ‘doctor’ and
ask about you. To my horror, I learned he
had left you up on the roof. . . .</p>

<p class="pindent">“Of course I realized I had shut the door
in your face, and, when I rushed back to
listen, I could hear ‘Rose’ Noble speaking
and you reply. I took Bell’s pistol, posted
George and Rowley as best I could and
cautiously opened the door, <span class="it">to find that the
roof was empty and the opposite door was shut</span>.
This made me think very hard. Although
he knew we had rope, ‘Rose’ Noble was
giving us the roof: but the gifts of a man
like that are always dangerous, and I
instantly wondered if he meant to take to
the wood.</p>

<p class="pindent">“A moment’s reflection convinced me that
this was so.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“In the first place, to use his own words,
‘if ever it got to a dog-fight, the fellow that
had this thicket was bound to win’: in the
second, the dog-fight was coming—there was
any amount to suggest that the servants
were in: the castle would soon be unhealthy,
because of the doctor’s friends; and, then,
the cars for the taking and Carson as well:
finally, he knew I should seek you, and the
very best place in which to hold you prisoner
was, therefore, the wood.</p>

<p class="pindent">“There was not a moment to lose. We
couldn’t go down the cliff, for we hadn’t
sufficient rope, and our only chance was to
reach the wood by the spur not only before
‘Rose’ Noble, <span class="it">but before he was in a position
to see us go</span>.</p>

<p class="pindent">“I left George and Rowley with Adèle,
who was now as safe as a house, and Bell and
I slid down from the roof to the spur. The
‘doctor,’ a gallant old fellow, drew up the
rope behind us and then slipped back to the
tower. Believe me, I ran for this wood,
with my heart in my mouth. . . .</p>

<p class="pindent">“When we made the drive, I sent Bell off
for Carson and lay in wait. Almost at once
you appeared. I watched you come out of
the window and start for the wood, but,
when I felt for my pistol, <span class="it">it wasn’t there</span>. . . .</p>

<p class="pindent">“I’d given it back to Bell, before I went
down the rope, and in the rush I’d forgotten
to ask for it back.</p>

<p class="pindent">“Well, there was nothing to be done. I
retired, marked you to cover and then went
off to pick up Carson and Bell. I’m afraid
the delay cost you dear, for I had to be
careful to meet them a long way back and, of
course, we had to come up without snapping
a twig. But I think, perhaps, after all, it
was better so, for the sprint had unsteadied
my hand, and, if I had missed or anything
else had slipped, you were a pretty good
hostage and I was but one to three.</p>

<p class="pindent">“The rest you know.” He rose to his feet
and stretched luxuriously. “And now, if you
feel like moving, we’ll get into one of the cars
and go back to Adèle. Carson and Bell are
digging a certain grave, and I think we’ll
leave them to it—and him to them. To tell
you the truth, I don’t want to see him again.
The sight of him rouses feelings that one
shouldn’t have against the dead. In his way,
he was a great man, and, if he’d had the
help I’ve had, he’d have wiped me off the
map. He hadn’t a servant worth having—they
let him down right and left: he
practically stood alone: and, even so, it took
six of us all we knew to bring him down.”</p>

<p class="pindent">It is not for me to review that valediction:
I heard it in silence, and in silence I leave it
now. The quarrel was not mine, but
Mansel’s, and I will not pick over the blossoms
he chose to lay upon the grave.</p>

<p class="pindent">Without a word, we made our way to the
cars, and, taking the first, drove slowly out
of the drive and down to the castle gate.</p>

<p class="pindent">Then Mansel climbed in by the window
that had the loose bar, and two minutes later
he swung the great leaf open and I drove
in.</p>

<p class="pindent">When I was in the courtyard, I stopped
and sounded the horn. Before its echoes had
died, a casement of the oratory was opened,
and Hanbury put out his head.</p>

<p class="pindent">“All over,” said Mansel simply. “Open
the doors.”</p>

<p class="pindent">He was on his way to the guard-room,
before I was out of the car, with Tester
scrambling before him, agog to prove the
promise of so unusual a field.</p>

<p class="pindent">I followed leisurely, still thinking on the
death of ‘Rose’ Noble and of all that had
passed, and trying to believe that the clock
in the dashboard of the Rolls was telling the
truth when it said that the hour was no
more than half-past nine.</p>

<p class="pindent">So I came to the guard-room and down the
winding stair.</p>

<p class="pindent">The passage door was open, and Mansel
was standing in the passage, fronting Adèle.
His back was towards me, but I saw that his
head was bowed and he had her hand to his
lips. The back of her other hand was across
her eyes.</p>

<p class="pindent"><span class="it">And between them and me crouched Casemate
framed in the passage doorway, pistol in hand.</span></p>

<p class="pindent">I let out a cry that might have been heard
in Lass, but, as I did so, he fired, and I saw
Mansel stagger a little and then sink down
on his knees.</p>

<p class="pindent">Before Casemate could turn, I had knocked
him flat on his face and was kneeling upon
his back. Then I took my knife and drove
it into his spine.</p>

<p class="pindent">But the mischief was done.</p>

<p class="pindent">Mansel was still alive, but the bullet had
entered his stomach, and there was death in
his face.</p>

<div><h1 id="chIX">CHAPTER IX<br /><span style="font-size:smaller"> FULL MEASURE</span></h1></div>

<p class="pindent">I shall never forgive myself for forgetting
that Casemate was still at large. I had
thought of him twice since my rescue—once
as I lay by the brook, awaiting Mansel’s
return, and again whilst Mansel was gone to
open the castle gate: and each time, before
he was back, I had let some other matter
thrust Casemate out of my mind.</p>

<p class="pindent">I have no excuse to offer. It was a
monstrous negligence, for which I can never
account, though sometimes I strive to believe
that ‘Rose’ Noble’s familiar possessed me to
let Mansel down.</p>

<p class="pindent">We bore him into the lovely bedchamber
and laid him upon the King’s bed.</p>

<p class="pindent">When we would have taken his coat, he
shook his head.</p>

<p class="pindent">“He’s got me all right,” he whispered:
“so let me be.”</p>

<p class="pindent">I tried to say I was sorry, with the tears
running down my face.</p>

<p class="pindent">But he only smiled.</p>

<p class="pindent">“Rot,” he said gently. “Luck of the
battle—that’s all.”</p>

<p class="pindent">Upon the great bed sat Adèle, steady-eyed
as ever, but very pale. She might have been
Eve, as Milton has pictured her, sitting upon
the green bank, looking into the pool. Her
left arm propped her, and she was sitting
sideways, after the way of a child: one ring
of the broken handcuffs was still about her
slim leg. Her hand was in Mansel’s, and
their two hands lay in her lap: her beautiful
head was bowed, and her eyes never left the
eyes of the man she loved.</p>

<p class="pindent">On his other side lay Tester, close up
against his lord. Mansel’s left hand was
upon him; but, though, I think, he would
have licked it, the poor scrap never moved,
but lay as still as an image, with his chin on
his little paws and his eyes upon Mansel’s
face.</p>

<p class="pindent">If the others came and went, I did not
notice them; and, after a little, I found the
windows open and the doors of the chamber
shut.</p>

<p class="pindent">“Punter and Bunch,” said Mansel.
“Search them for money and take every
penny they’ve got. Go to Innsbruck and buy
them two tickets for London. Give them
these and drop them outside the town.
Someone must watch them in and see that
they go. And the caretakers must be dealt
with. Perhaps the ‘doctor’ will help. It
shouldn’t be very hard to stop their mouths.
But try and mop everything up before
you go.”</p>

<p class="pindent">I could only nod: and, when he had seen
me do this, he closed his eyes.</p>

<p class="pindent">If he suffered, he never showed it. Indeed,
he seemed well content. And, when Adèle
stooped to kiss him, a light that was not of
this world came into his eyes.</p>

<p class="pindent">Once I made to rise and leave them, but,
interpreting my movement, Mansel lifted his
hand and bade me stay.</p>

<p class="pindent">So we three waited together, as we had
waited together the day before, but this
time under a shadow which would not
pass. . . .</p>

<p class="pindent">My eyes stole round the room.</p>

<p class="pindent">The chamber was full of light, and a broad
sash of sunshine was lying athwart the wall.
The black oak, the gold and the crimson
feasted the eye. The tapestries beckoned
into the glades they pictured, and the four
men-at-arms about the bed insisted upon the
presence they had been set to keep. All I
can say is that the presence was there. For
once Fate had not bungled, but had laid a
king upon a king’s bed to die.</p>

<p class="pindent">Then I thought of Maximilian and of the
exquisite surname which he had won, and at
last I saw the writing which had been all the
time upon the wall.</p>

<p class="pindent">Destiny will be served. For more than
four hundred years that room had been
swept and garnished, had stood ever ready
and waiting for ‘The Last of the Knights.’
Jonathan Mansel, Gentleman, had come into
his own.</p>

<p class="pindent">My eyes returned to the bed—to read as
dreadful a message as ever I saw.</p>

<p class="pindent">We had drawn the coverlet, before we
had laid him down, exposing a silken quilt
that had, I think, once been white, but was
now yellow with age. Upon this there was
now a great blood-stain, very slowly spreading
about his hips.</p>

<p class="pindent">The terrible sight shocked me, and I
covered my eyes.</p>

<p class="pindent">Adèle was speaking.</p>

<p class="pindent">“Can we do nothing, my darling? No
single thing?”</p>

<p class="pindent">Very gently he shook his head.</p>

<p class="pindent">“If we were in London,” he murmured,
“they might have a shot: but I’m very
comfortable, and it’s a great relief to know
that we’re out of the wood.”</p>

<p class="pindent">A dry sob shook Adèle.</p>

<p class="pindent">“Another wood’s coming, Jonah: it’s very
near: I must go into that alone—and there
aren’t any leaves on the trees.”</p>

<p class="pindent">Mansel smiled very tenderly.</p>

<p class="pindent">“The spring’s in your heart, my darling.
The trees will break at your coming, and the
wood will become your bower.”</p>

<p class="pindent">Adèle shook her lovely head.</p>

<p class="pindent">“Ah, Jonah, I’ve no heart left. If we
could have gone in together, I wouldn’t have
cared: but it’s . . . so dreadful, Jonah . . .
to face it alone.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Hush, my darling. William will see you
through. Think only how rich you made me,
that I’m going laden with a treasure which
no Customs can take away. Remembering
that, my lady, how can you mourn? See
what a tide I’m taking. It’s never been half
so high in all my life. I’m going out on the
very full of the flood, and the ebb that might
have hurt me will never run.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“It’s our tide you’re taking, Jonah—our
wonderful, shining tide. And I’ve got to
stand on the shore and see it go down. I
could have borne it with you. It never
would have fallen, so long as you were beside
me—to share our lovely secret and teach
me to play the game.”</p>

<p class="pindent">For the first time a troubled look came
into his face.</p>

<p class="pindent">“It’s better like this, my sweet. We
might have slipped and fallen, or——”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Never,” sobbed Adèle. “You know it.
Not if Boy were to live for fifty years. You
love me, and that’s enough. Your arms
have been about me, and I’ve kissed your
blessed lips, and I’d have lived on that
memory——”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Live on it still, my queen. Do me that
matchless honour. Lift up the heart I
touched, because I touched it, the eyes I
kissed, because a man knelt and looked up
and saw himself in them.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Oh, Jonah, if love could do it, it should
be done. But it’s strength alone that can
help me, and all my strength is in you. You
don’t know your strength, my darling. You
carry so lightly what no other man could
lift. We’ve always leaned on you, Jonah:
the first thing I learned of Boy was to lean
upon you. When they took me that day by
Sava, I knew you’d come. I wasn’t afraid,
because I knew you’d find me and pull me
out. I wasn’t afraid of ‘Rose’ Noble—I
told him so. I told him he hadn’t an earthly
and that, if he took me to Hell, you’d follow
me down and break him and carry me back.
And I wasn’t afraid to love you and take
your love—to play with the fire of Heaven,
for I knew I could count on your strength
to bring us through. But now . . . you’re
going, my darling . . . and I must fend
for myself. And I’m lost and beggared
and beaten, and—oh, Jonah, I’m terribly
afraid.”</p>

<p class="pindent">Mansel put up a hand and touched her
hair.</p>

<p class="pindent">“I found my strength in your nature, in
the light of your steady, brown eyes and the
flash of your smile: in your beautiful voice
and your laughter and the play of your little
hands: in the lisp of your footfalls and, at
last, in the brush of your lips . . . You gave
me my strength, my darling: and the spirit
that lighted my life can light its own. Two
days ago in this room you made me a king—of
your own sweet will, though Death had
his ear to the keyhole, and Terror his
eyes on the latch. That’s not the way of
fear.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“But you were with me, Jonah. I tell
you, with you to lean on, I knew no fear.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“A fiction, my beauty, a fiction. You
mustn’t bow down to an image that you set
up. It wasn’t I that set the stars in your
eyes or gave that fine, proud curve to your
beautiful mouth. Adèle was a great lady,
before ever she heard my name. So lift up
your head, in the old familiar way. Look
Fate in the eyes, my darling, and he’ll always
give you the wall.”</p>

<p class="pindent">Adèle seemed to brace herself. Then she
took his hand and kissed it and held it
against her heart.</p>

<p class="pindent">“I’ll try,” she said quietly. “If Tester
will let me, I’ll do what I can to help him;
and, as soon as we’ve got our bearings,
Tester and I will try.”</p>

<p class="pindent">I saw the dog’s ears lift, but he never
stirred.</p>

<p class="pindent">“Poor little chap,” said Mansel. “I’m
afraid it’ll hit him hard.”</p>

<p class="pindent">Then he spoke to the scrap and told him
that he must look after Adèle and that soon
he was to be her dog, “for you see, old
fellow,” he murmured, “I’ve got to go away.
And it’s not like the other times, for this
time . . . I shan’t come back.”</p>

<p class="pindent">A tremor ran through the dog’s frame, and
he gave a little whimper that wrung my
heart. As plainly as if he had spoken, he
was acknowledging the sentence which the
man that he worshipped had passed.
Devotion so piteous and so absolute would
have drawn tears from any stone, and I was
not surprised when beneath this turn of
the roller Adèle broke down.</p>

<p class="pindent">She slipped from the bed to the floor,
buried her face in her hands and shook like
a leaf.</p>

<p class="pindent">“I can’t face it,” she said wildly. “Three
days ago I could have done it, but now it’s
too late. Two days ago the face of my world
was changed. We changed it together, Jonah,
you and I. But, when we changed it, we
set a yoke on our necks. . . . I wouldn’t go
back for fifty million worlds—our yoke’s my
pride and glory, the loveliest jewel that ever
a woman wore. They were going to tattoo
me, Jonah—to write your name on my back.
I wish to God they’d done it: but it wouldn’t
have been the same as the yoke we put on
together two days ago. And now I’ve got
to carry . . . our yoke . . . alone. . . . Between
us, its weight was nothing. It had no
weight. Day and night I’d have worn it,
and life would have been the lighter because
it was there. But alone, Jonah . . . <span class="it">alone</span>.
How can I lift up my head, with a millstone
about my neck? How can I lift up my
heart, when my fellow is gone?”</p>

<p class="pindent">Great beads of sweat were standing on
Mansel’s brow: but his voice, though low,
was steady as it had ever been.</p>

<p class="pindent">“ ‘The one shall be taken,’ ” he said, “ ‘and
the other left.’ That is the private touchstone
of the great Alchemist himself. Only
the greatest hearts come to be put to such
a shining proof, and those that pass it, my
lady, emerge so tempered that no blow can
ever dent them and they can turn the edge
of any sorrow.”</p>

<p class="pindent">Adèle dragged herself up and knelt to
the bed: as she leaned over blindly, Mansel
put his arm round her neck. . . .</p>

<p class="pindent">And then, for a while, there was silence,
and the whisper of the water, taking its leap
from the terrace, was all the sound we
heard.</p>

<p class="pindent">Tester lifted his head and looked at the
wall.</p>

<p class="pindent">At first I could hear nothing: then came
a step in the passage, and, an instant later,
Hanbury opened the door.</p>

<p class="pindent">As he looked at the bed——</p>

<p class="pindent">“Ah, George,” said Mansel, and smiled.</p>

<p class="pindent">Hanbury glanced behind him, and a tall,
fresh-faced man came into the room.</p>

<p class="pindent">“This is Dr. Buchinger,” said George.
“He is an Innsbruck surgeon, who happened
to be at Lass.”</p>

<p class="pindent">The other bowed to Adèle: then he
stepped to the bed.</p>

<p class="pindent">I was just in time to catch Tester, who
would have flown at his throat, but the
surgeon ignored the flurry and, frowning
a little at the blood-stain upon the
quilt, stooped to set his fingers on Mansel’s
wrist.</p>

<p class="pindent">There was a breathless silence.</p>

<p class="pindent">Then he took a case from his pocket and
straightened his back.</p>

<p class="pindent">“I must give an injection,” he said.
“Please see if the room is ready and bring a
shutter or something on which you may
carry him in.”</p>

<hr class="tbk" />

<p class="pindent">“You see,” said George, “it was like this.
I knew it was a chance in a million, but
there was the car waiting, and the bookseller
ready to help. I would have gone to Innsbruck,
for I hadn’t much hope of Lass.
‘Can there any good thing come out of
Nazareth?’ But my father’s a doctor, you
know, and I knew we were up against time—hæmorrhage.
You don’t die of the wound:
you die of the loss of blood. I tell you, I had
next to no hope. . . .</p>

<p class="pindent">“All the way I kept wondering how I
could smother the rumours my action was
going to start. Call in a doctor, and you
always open the sluice. When I thought of
the flood behind, my foot went out to the
brake. It amounted to this—I was putting
all our shirts on the rankest outsider that
ever was saddled up. Then I thought of
the shock his death would be to Adèle and
the awful look in your face as we carried
him in. . . .</p>

<p class="pindent">“By the time we ran into Lass, I had a
half-baked plan.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“We drove to the local surgeon’s. His
door was open and, by the grace of God, he
was just showing Buchinger out. Then I
made a most happy mistake. I took
Buchinger for the local, and the local for
Buchinger’s man. Before the bookseller could
stop me, I’d asked if he could speak English,
and, when he said ‘yes,’ I dragged him into
the house and started in. There was no time
for finesse: my only card was the money,
so I jolly well bunged it in. I said if he’d
do the case, we’d pay him a thousand pounds—<span class="it">and
another four thousand pounds three
months from to-day, provided we’d reason to
think that he’d held his tongue</span>. Then I took
out the wallet that Mansel keeps in the car
and laid the notes on the table before his
eyes. He seemed rather staggered and looked
at me very hard. Then the bookseller put
in his oar. ‘I will give you my word,’ he
said, ‘that there is nothing to fear. This
gentleman is saving a lady’s name.’ That
seemed to reassure Buchinger, but still he
wouldn’t say ‘yes.’</p>

<p class="pindent">“ ‘Dr. Rachel must help me,’ he said, and
looked at the wallah that I had thought was
his man.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Then I saw my mistake and that he must
be another <span class="it">and bigger</span> pot.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“ ‘By all means,’ said I, and added two
hundred and fifty to what there was on the
board.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“The two of them looked at the notes.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Then Rachel made a noise like a siphon
and picked his up. . . .”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Well, he has a kind of clinic attached to
his house. All the stuff for an operation was
ready to hand. Without Buchinger, he’d
have been hopeless—forgotten from A to Z.
But Buchinger knows his job. He called
for paper and pencil and made out a list.
When he’d done, he checked it over: then
he gave it to Rachel and told him to ‘get
those things into the car.’ Five minutes
later we picked him up at a chemist’s two
streets away.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“You’ve saved his life,” said I.</p>

<p class="pindent">“That remains to be seen,” said George.
“But, if I have, it’s pure fluke. <span class="it">Buchinger
was leaving the house to catch his train. He
was actually on the doorstep.</span> And Rachel
could no more have done it than you or I.
Clever enough, no doubt: but take him out
of his groove, and he loses his mind.”</p>

<p class="pindent">This estimate, if not exact, was unpleasantly
near the truth. As Rachel was bidden, he
did—with an excellent grace: but the poor
man’s composure was gone, and his efforts
to bring it to heel were as obvious as they
were vain. This made us all fear for his
discretion; but the bookseller presently
insisted that the sight of familiar surroundings
would send this disorder away and that,
once he was back in his province, we could
count upon his prudence as upon that of a
sage.</p>

<p class="pindent">This comforted us, for there was much to
be done, and our cup of anxiety was full.</p>

<p class="pindent">When the operation was over, Buchinger
told us plainly that, so far from his life being
saved, Mansel might die any minute during
the next three days.</p>

<p class="pindent">“When he thought he was dying,” he said,
“he was perfectly right. He was dying—and
dying fast. He is now no longer dying:
Dr. Rachel and I have stopped that. But he
is standing still—on the very edge of death.
And there we must try to keep him, for,
nothing that I can do can draw him back.
If he should live for three days, he will
himself draw back: and then a medical
student could make him well. But if, before
then, he slips—that is the end.</p>

<p class="pindent">“I shall, of course, stay here. As luck
will have it, my holiday does not end for
another six days. But Dr. Rachel must go.
You will fetch him again this evening, when
he will bring my things and some drugs that
I want. And, if you will keep your secret,
I think I should drive into Lass by some
indirect way. Of course, you should have a
nurse—two nurses. But women would talk.
Only, I fear for the health of that beautiful
girl. . . .”</p>

<p class="pindent">We drew what cheer we could from these
solemn words and, since Adèle was with
Mansel, turned with relief to the business of
setting our house in order as best we might.</p>

<p class="pindent">‘Rose’ Noble lay still unburied, for Carson
and Bell had left him and rushed to the
castle directly they heard the shot, and,
finding the truth so dreadful, had rightly
stayed within call. And, since another grave
had now to be dug, we put these two matters
in train before anything else.</p>

<p class="pindent">The surgeons had not seen Casemate for,
while George was gone for a doctor, the
servants had taken the body into the Dining-room.
For this I was thankful, for to help
a man out of a trespass is one thing, but
to stand accessory to homicide is, as they say,
a different pair of shoes.</p>

<p class="pindent">And here I may say that, if Rachel was
too much bemused, Buchinger was far too
wary to ask any questions at all: he must
have suspected that Mansel’s was not the
only blood that had been shed, but he saw
the danger of knowledge and held his
peace.</p>

<p class="pindent">When he had returned to the sick-room
and George had gone off with Rachel, to
drive him to Lass, we carried Casemate’s body
down to the second car, and Bell and Rowley
and I drove up to the wood. And there we
laid the fellow to such rest as a murderer has:
and I trust he will lie undisturbed for the
rest of our days, for, do what we would, we
could not withdraw my knife, but were
forced to bury the dead with this document
fast in his back.</p>

<p class="pindent">Until these grim rites were over, I could
not rest, for, if dead men can tell no tales,
a corpse can speak for itself, and I was
determined to take no chances at all. George,
who was very soon back, held the same
view, and the four of us laboured like fury,
until the business was done.</p>

<p class="pindent">When we left the thicket, we took with us
Punter and Bunch and cast them into the
kitchen which they had turned into a gaol.
When they saw their quarters, the two looked
ready to burst: but, if they disliked their
fortune, they had only themselves to thank.
I do not suppose that hospitality was ever
shown so grudgingly or taken so ill, but,
though we hated their presence, we thought
it wise not to enlarge them until we should
leave the castle for good and all.</p>

<p class="pindent">We then set the caretakers free.</p>

<p class="pindent">As may be believed, these were half dead
of apprehension. Indeed, their one idea was
to fly the place, and, but for the bookseller,
whom they had known for some years, we
should have had no choice but to detain
them by force.</p>

<p class="pindent">‘Rose’ Noble, of course, had ‘bought’
them: and, once he was fairly installed, they
could not go back. They could not betray
his presence, without disclosing that they
had betrayed their trust, and obeyed in
fear and trembling their new and terrible
lord. They had in the end made up their
minds to vanish, but he had divined their
intention and, coming upon them, whilst
they were packing some traps, had cuffed
their right feet together and locked them
into their room. In this miserable state we
found them, full of lamentation and the
expectation of death and entirely persuaded
that, even if they were saved, as the result
of their bondage they would be lame for
life. Indeed, when we cut the links, they
both declared that they could not possibly
walk, that the iron had set up gangrene and
other faint-hearted rubbish that wearied us
all. With infinite patience, however, the
bookseller took them to task, and, when he
had at last convinced them that they were
whole, made it plain that they still had a
chance of avoiding such penalties as they had
justly earned. At this, they pricked up
their ears, and within the hour it was settled
that we would repair such damage as might
have been done to the house and would hold
our tongues, provided they served us truly
so long as we stayed. The terms were not
to their liking, but, since beggars cannot be
choosers, they had to agree, and the woman
cooked us some luncheon that very day.</p>

<p class="pindent">When George drove to Lass, to seek Rachel,
that afternoon, he fetched from the inn what
few belongings we had left there against
our return, and, giving out that Mansel had
crushed his foot and lay in a peasant’s cabin
in danger of losing his leg, sowed the seed
of a story for Rachel to tell. Him we took
back to a junction some miles below Lass
and promised to meet him there at ten the
next day.</p>

<p class="pindent">The bookseller flatly refused to let us
convey him at all, maintaining, that it was to
our interest that he should go as he came
and so be forearmed to affirm that, if there
was trouble abroad, it was not at the Castle
of Gath. His housekeeper, a notorious gossip,
was aware that he had intended to visit the
castle that day: any perilous rumours,
therefore, were sure to be brought straight
to him, and, if he was able to disclaim an
acquaintance with strife, he would be able
to crush them once for all. His one
appearance in the car could be explained
well enough: Hanbury had met him at
the cross roads, in some distress, and he
had offered to show him the surgeon’s
house.</p>

<p class="pindent">The debt we owe to that man can never
be paid. He had a heart of gold. Most
brave, discreet and understanding, he threw
himself into our venture, as though it had
been his own, and would, I think, have
cheerfully gone to the stake, rather than have
spoken one word to our embarrassment. We
had purchased the surgeons’ silence, as well as
their skill: the caretakers went in fear:
but the bookseller held his tongue and gave
of the best he had because he liked us and
without, I am sure, any thought of any
reward.</p>

<p class="pindent">By dusk some sort of order had been set
up. Rooms had been cleaned and prepared
for Buchinger and Adèle; and each of us
had his quarters and his particular charge.</p>

<p class="pindent">That night a note went to Poganec.</p>

<div class="blockquote">

<p class="pindent"><span class="it">I am free and safe and sound—at a terrible
cost. Jonah has been wounded and lies at the
point of death.</span></p>

<p class="line" style="text-align:right;margin-right:1em;"><span class="it">Adèle.</span></p>

</div>

<p class="pindent">And there he lay for three days, as
Buchinger had said, in the room that Adèle
had once used in the south-west tower.</p>

<p class="pindent">Then the mists parted, and they said he
would live.</p>

<hr class="tbk" />

<p class="pindent">“I think,” said Buchinger, “that he will
recover fast. If all goes well, he can leave
his bed in a fortnight, and in another week
you may drive him home. But not before
that. To-morrow morning I shall return to
Innsbruck, but shall visit him twice in each
week until he is well. No doubt you will
kindly convey me in one of your cars. Dr.
Rachel must still attend him twice in the
day: but, when a week has gone by, once in
the day will do. I have told Miss Adèle
that now his servant may very well take the
night watch, and, if you do not want another
patient upon your hands, I recommend you
to insist that this is done.”</p>

<p class="pindent">Here something touched his leg, and we
both looked down to see Tester wagging his
tail.</p>

<p class="pindent">“Ah, you monkey. Yes, that is all very
well. I come to save your master, and you
fly in my face. You are carried off, breathing
threatenings and thirsty to drink my blood.
And now I have done it in your teeth, I am
your very good friend and must be noticed
and honoured——”</p>

<p class="pindent">Tester rolled over and put his paws in the
air: and, when the surgeon stooped, jumped
up to lick his face.</p>

<p class="pindent">I never saw the dog so use any other
stranger, and he would not look at Rachel,
for all his zeal. With this blunt discernment
all his conduct was of a piece. We had set
a box for him in the ‘gallery of stone,’ and
there he had lain, like a mouse, since the day
on which Mansel was hit, never going further
than the terrace, the door to which stood
open, for him to use. He never sought to
enter the sick-room, but always rose and
listened, whenever the door was opened by
day or night, and anxiously scanned the faces
of such as went. So for those three black
days. After that he went out and about
and took his ease and only kept his box
when we went to bed. Then came the day
when Mansel asked for him and, when I
went to the door, to go and find him, there
he was, standing on the threshold, with one
paw raised and his eyes seeking confirmation
of what he believed to be the truth.</p>

<p class="pindent">I do not seek to magnify his instinct, but,
well as we knew him, these things astonished
us all, and, if speech was denied him, he had,
I think, another and finer faculty.</p>

<p class="pindent">There seemed little doubt that, so far, our
secret was safe. We drew our supplies, not
from Lass, but from towns in other directions
from twenty to fifty miles off: since the day
of Mansel’s wounding, we had not been seen
in Lass, and we fetched and carried Rachel
by devious ways: when we left the drive,
we did so with great circumspection, the castle
gates were kept shut, and no lights were shown
in the building or on the cars.</p>

<p class="pindent">George had visited Poganec, had told the
most of our story and had explained our
case. The question of the Pleydells’ coming
had naturally arisen at once, but, after a
while, they determined to stay where they
were. Captain Pleydell could not be moved,
because of his leg: and the others decided
that, till Mansel was in a condition to be not
only prepared for their coming, but satisfied
that this move was entailing no risk, their
appearance would only concern him and
would do no manner of good. So soon,
however, as Mansel began to mend, we were
to fetch Daphne Pleydell, while it was dark,
to spend a day in the castle and go back the
following night: a day or so later Major
Pleydell would come, and, when these two
visits were over, Adèle would visit her
husband in just the same way.</p>

<p class="pindent">That all this precaution was needful, there
is no doubt. Lass was big with rumour,
and, though much of the gossip was wild, we
were astounded to find how close some
approached the truth.</p>

<p class="pindent">Rachel maintained his story that Mansel
had crushed his leg, and the bookseller
quietly diverted suspicion from Gath; but
neither could shut the eyes or stop the ears
of a town whose sleep was seldom broken by
anything more stirring than a chimney
afire or an instance of petty theft.</p>

<p class="pindent">The bookseller wrote to us daily, always
directing his letter to a different village or
town, from which we posted our answer,
telling how Mansel did.</p>

<p class="pindent">I cannot do better than make the first
letter he wrote us speak for itself.</p>

<div class="blockquote">

<p class="line" style="text-align:left;margin-left:0em;"><span class="it">Sirs</span>,</p>

<p class="pindent"><span class="it">You shall please take great cares. Yours
fetchings of Dr. Rachel cannot be too secretly
made. It is said here that a priest is led into
the mountains and there destroyed: that one
man has met him to appointment in a house of
the alley over against my shop and would lead
him into the mountains, where three more men
were lying ready to kill: that the priest was to
seek a woman who had his love and was not of
her own mind because she loved him so dearly:
that the woman is lying still in his murderer’s
arms and that these had a great motor-car in
which they drove themselves: that such car is
now in Welsa, under the village’s police, who
wait for it to be demanded, but all in vain,
because the murderers are afraid: that you
came after the priest, to save his life, and
are encamped in the mountains until the
murderers shall move: that they are shut
themselves in one of the castles, but you do not
know which, and, because of your friend’s
misadventure, you are at a deadlock. And
other things was said, that the woman wears
the clothes of a man, that the priest is hanged
to death, and many other untruths: but those
of above will show upon you how clean you
must pick your way.</span></p>

<p class="pindent"><span class="it">All this, I learn, was said for two or three
days, but was not come to my ears, because
I sit still with my books: but, when I return
from Gath, I find myself well awaited, and I
am glad I was ready with my tale.</span></p>

<p class="pindent"><span class="it">I trust and believe your friend is surviving
his wound.</span></p>

<p class="line" style="text-align:right;margin-right:1em;"><span class="it">Your obedient servant</span></p>
<p class="line" style="text-align:right;margin-right:4em;"><span class="it">H.S.</span></p>

</div>

<p class="pindent">Still the days went by, and no one troubled
us: the visits were paid, and the world
seemed none the wiser: our curious heritage
became a pleasant habit: and Mansel grew
steadily better under the love of Adèle.</p>

<hr class="tbk" />

<p class="pindent">I was sitting on the terrace one morning,
on a cushion of one of the cars, looking at
the exquisite prospect and finding much
virtue in sloth, when a hand came to rest
upon my shoulder, and there was Adèle.</p>

<p class="pindent">Care and her vigil had left her a little pale,
but this only gave her beauty a delicate look
which suited it very well.</p>

<p class="pindent">Without a word, she sat herself down
beside me, propped herself on an arm and
tilted her chin.</p>

<p class="pindent">“Have you drunk your milk?” said I.</p>

<p class="pindent">“Yes,” said Adèle. “Beautiful, fragrant
milk—straight from the cow. Who travelled
all night to get it—and drinks canned milk
himself?”</p>

<p class="pindent">“George Hanbury,” said I.</p>

<p class="pindent">Adèle sighed.</p>

<p class="pindent">“I wonder,” she said, “I wonder if ever
a woman was so well served.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“You must thank yourself,” said I.</p>

<p class="pindent">“So Jonah says,” said Adèle: “but I
can’t see why.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“You must take our word,” said I, “for
it’s gospel truth.”</p>

<p class="pindent">And so it was. Without any thought of
favour, we delighted to serve Adèle. I am
not quite certain why. It was not because
she was more bodily and mentally attractive
than any girl that I have ever seen: it was
not because of her dignity or because of her
natural grace. She had a way with her.
This was a royal way, and—it was the way
of a child. She was full-grown, she was
worldly, she was wise: but, with it all, she
had never lost that golden flush of childhood
which makes its way directly into the hardest
heart. I have often wondered how ‘Rose’
Noble could have used her so harshly, but
I think that he had no heart, and the others,
I suppose, had no choice but to follow his
monstrous lead.</p>

<p class="pindent">“Do you remember,” she said, “a question
you asked me not very long ago?”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Yes,” said I. “ ‘What about going
back?’ ”</p>

<p class="pindent">She nodded.</p>

<p class="pindent">“That’s right. I think you saw better
than I how very hard it would be. It would
have been—awfully hard. But Fate’s very
wise. They say God tempers the wind to
the shorn lamb. I’m sure He does—in His
mysterious way. I’ve often wondered how
such a thing could be done: but now I know.
So soon as the lamb is shorn, He lets the
wind blow for a moment <span class="it">with ice in its breath</span>:
and that moment’s so dreadful that ever
after that the lamb doesn’t feel the wind. . . .
And that’s our case. It would have been
awfully hard. But that half-hour was so
dreadful that now the rest seems easy, and
I’m not a bit afraid. It’s the old question
of contrast. I’ve lifted the load that I might
have had to carry. It crushed me—for half
an hour. And then for three days and nights
I stood waiting to know my fate.” She
drew a deep breath. “Can you wonder,
William, that, after that experience, the
future weighs no more than this necklace
around my neck?”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Thank God for that, Adèle.”</p>

<p class="pindent">For a little while she sat silent, smiling
into the distance as though there were
something there which I could not see.</p>

<p class="pindent">“I’m very lucky,” she said. “My love-affair’s
been so perfect—from first to last.
I was taken because he loved me, and then
he came in his strength, to pull me out. I
shared the rough with him; and, whilst we
were under the shadow, he slept with his
head in my lap: when he was hurt, I was
there; and alone I’ve had the glory of
helping him back to life. And it’s all been
out of the world: we’ve never had to use the
back stairs, or whisper, or put out the light.
There’s been nothing sordid about it, and
nothing cheap. And, when it’s finished, it’ll
go, like a painting, into the quiet gallery
of which you and he and I have the only
keys.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“I shall often walk there, Adèle.”</p>

<p class="pindent">She nodded gravely.</p>

<p class="pindent">“I like to think that you will.”</p>

<p class="pindent">There was another silence.</p>

<p class="pindent">Presently she knitted her brows.</p>

<p class="pindent">“I’m upset about Boy,” she said. “You
can’t get away from the fact that I’m letting
him down. He is so good to me, and I love
him so much. He’s so proud of me and of
Jonah, and he plays such a splendid game.
When you took me to Poganec, he was so
glad to see me, but they hadn’t told him I
was coming, because they knew he’d say that
I mustn’t leave Jonah’s side. You can’t
beat that, can you?”</p>

<p class="pindent">“As I live,” said I, “I believe that he’d
understand. Of course, you can’t possibly
tell him: but, if you did, I believe that he’d
understand. So don’t be upset, Adèle. It
was nobody’s fault. It was the most natural
thing that ever happened.”</p>

<p class="pindent">Adèle turned a glowing face.</p>

<p class="pindent">“William, tell me. All the world would
say that Jonah and I were doing a rotten
thing. How is it you don’t think so? How
is it you understand?”</p>

<p class="pindent">“There’s no one like him,” said I.</p>

<p class="pindent">“I know, but——”</p>

<p class="pindent">“And, then—there’s no one like you.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Oh, William. . . .”</p>

<p class="pindent">“The page and the lady,” said I. “It’s
often happened before. And I shall survive.”
I rose to my feet. “But that, I think, is the
reason why I understand. I can look at him
with your eyes, and I can see you with his,
and—well, Kings and Queens go together,
and, oh, my dear, I’m so glad I shall have
that key.”</p>

<p class="pindent">Adèle put out a slim hand, and I lifted
her up.</p>

<p class="pindent">I would have loosed her fingers, but she
left them in mine.</p>

<p class="pindent">“You’re a lot like him,” she said quietly.
“Rowley told me who fetched the milk.”</p>

<p class="pindent">Then she put her hand to my lips.</p>

<hr class="tbk" />

<p class="pindent">On the last day we spent at the castle,
the bookseller came, by arrangement, to bid
us ‘good-bye.’</p>

<p class="pindent">We made much of him, as was natural, but,
when we had talked for a while and he had
broken his fast, he begged us to let him
ramble from room to room, “for my great
desire,” he said, “was to make my guide
pages more full, and never again shall I have
an occasion like this.”</p>

<p class="pindent">So we showed him the trick of the table—which
afforded him infinite delight—and
then let him go his own way, to discover and
speculate to his heart’s content. Ere it was
sundown, he had a great book full of notes,
and his voice was trembling with pleasure as
he told over his hoard.</p>

<p class="pindent">Then Mansel took him apart and did the
delicate business of making him rich. I do
not know what he said or how he said it, but,
when it was over, the poor old fellow was
quite unable to speak, and, though he shook
hands with us all a number of times, and
though George and I went with him as far
as the porch, he never once opened his mouth,
until the wicket stood open and he was about
to step out.</p>

<p class="pindent">Then——</p>

<p class="pindent">“Sirs,” he said shakily, “to some friendships
there is no farewells.”</p>

<p class="pindent">Then he clapped his hat on his head and
went his way.</p>

<p class="pindent">We watched him pass up the spur, but,
though we stood ready to wave, he never
looked back, and at last the wood swallowed
him up and we saw him no more.</p>

<p class="pindent">When the dusk came in, George, with
Bell and Rowley, went off with Punter
and Bunch, to take them to Innsbruck,
purchase their tickets for London and see
them go.</p>

<p class="pindent">The latter gave no trouble, comported
themselves most humbly and touched their
hats to their warders, if ever they spoke.
Such piety suggested that their recent bodily
affliction had chastened their souls; but
Rowley, who was watching to see that they
took the train, reported that, when they did
so, Punter was burdened with a suitcase and
Bunch with a dressing-bag, and, since, when
they left the car, they had had no luggage and
neither had upon him the price of a glass of
beer, I fear that they were incorrigible and
that honesty was, so to speak, beyond their
element.</p>

<p class="pindent">George was not to return to the castle,
but to meet us at midnight at a point between
Lass and Villach, some twenty miles from
the hog’s back from which we had scanned
the country a month before. So, when we
had dined and the terrier had had his supper,
Carson and Tester and I went the rounds for
the last time.</p>

<p class="pindent">No sign of our occupation was anywhere
to be seen.</p>

<p class="pindent">The damage we had done in the antechamber
had been repaired, the bullet-holes
in the Dining-room had been stopped and
such window-glass as was broken had been
replaced. The rooms had all been cleaned,
the floors shone like glass, the beds had been
stripped: the caretakers had such linen as
had been used, and this the woman would
wash and return to store: what rubbish and
litter there was had been taken the night
before and sunk in a river we knew of ten
miles away.</p>

<p class="pindent">When we had finished our inspection and
found all well, I sent Carson down, with
Tester, to finish loading the Rolls, and walked
by myself on the roof for half an hour.</p>

<p class="pindent">The night was lovely, and, though October
was in, the air was as still and gentle as that
of a summer’s eve. A fine moon was riding
a cloudless sky and shedding enough pale
light to lend the towers and bulwarks a
fanciful air and all the world I could see the
look of a fairy-tale.</p>

<p class="pindent">I do not believe in Enchantment: but,
if there be such a thing, it stood at my shoulder
that evening upon the ramparts of Gath.
Castle, spur and thicket, mountains and
forests and the flash of the water below
seemed all ‘such stuff as dreams are made
on,’ and I could not shake off the feeling that
we were about to quit a fantastic country
which, search for it as we might, we never
should see again.</p>

<p class="pindent">When it was ten o’clock, I made my way
to the courtyard. There all was in order:
what luggage we had was in place, and the
rugs and cushions for Mansel were piled in
the back of the car.</p>

<p class="pindent">Then I went to the terrace, as they had
asked me to do, to tell Adèle and Mansel that
it was time to be gone.</p>

<p class="pindent">They had left the chairs, set for them, and
were standing together up to the balustrade:
his arm was about her, and her head was
against his shoulder, and the two threw a
single shadow upon the flags.</p>

<p class="pindent">For a moment I stood, irresolute, at the
head of the steps. Then I went heavily
down. . . .</p>

<p class="pindent">They did not turn at my coming. Only
Adèle stretched out a little hand.</p>

<p class="pindent">I came and stood beside her, and her arm
went about my shoulders and held me close.</p>

<p class="pindent">So we stood, all three together, looking
unto the hills. . . .</p>

<p class="pindent">Mansel was speaking.</p>

<p class="pindent">“The very elements respect you,” he said.
“Was ever a night so lovely, to round a
dream?”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Our dream,” breathed Adèle. “Our
beautiful, shining dream. You gave it us,
darling. By keeping my letters, you gave
it. And your strength has been its glory,
your gentleness its life.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“You wrote the letters,” said Mansel.
“Because of that, I loved them so very much.
I never thought I should burn them. . . .
But then I never thought that, in their place
you would give me something—something
that won’t go into words, Adèle, that all the
ages must envy me, and that no thieves can
steal.”</p>

<p class="pindent">Adèle’s arm left my shoulders and came
to rest upon his.</p>

<p class="pindent">“Oh, Jonah—my love, my darling.”</p>

<p class="pindent">Mansel held her close, looking down on
her upturned face.</p>

<p class="pindent">“I love you,” he said. “I love the stars
in your eyes and the breath of your lips. I
love your hair and your temples and the
pride of your exquisite mouth. I love all
your peerless beauty. But, most of all, my
queen, I love your darling nature and the
finest, bravest heart that ever closed a book
at the end of one golden chapter—and put
it back on the shelf.”</p>

<p class="pindent">He kissed her steadily, and I covered my
eyes. . . .</p>

<p class="pindent">Adèle turned to me and put her arms round
my neck.</p>

<p class="pindent">“Dear William,” she said, “you saw the
beginning, and now you see the end. You’ve
been with us in light and in shadow: you’ve
given us freely the best that a man can give:
and I can only tell you that the love that
you have shown us is part and parcel of our
dream.”</p>

<p class="pindent">With that, she put up her lips to be
kissed, like a little child, and I kissed them
a little fearfully, for my clay is common,
but she and Mansel were spirits of another
sort.</p>

<p class="pindent">Then she returned to her lover, and I left
them to the rustle of the water and the pale
splendour of the moonlight and the motionless
plumage of the opposing hills. . . .</p>

<p class="pindent">Very soon they came up to the ‘gallery of
stone’: and I shut the door behind them
and followed them down to the courtyard,
without a word.</p>

<p class="pindent">Five minutes later the Rolls stole up the
spur and into the wood.</p>

<hr class="tbk" />

<p class="pindent">On the following day George Hanbury and
I would have returned to Villach, if not to
Town: but this Mansel would not hear of,
and, when he discovered our proposal, Adèle
and his cousins rose up in pleasant indignation
against our leaving their roof.</p>

<p class="pindent">We could not withstand such goodwill,
but, while George was glad to give way, I
was reluctant, and, indeed, I shrank from the
visit, I think, with cause.</p>

<p class="pindent">I need have had no fear.</p>

<p class="pindent">We stayed at Poganec until October was
old: every day was of summer, and, though
the leaves changed colour, they did not begin
to fall. But things other than the season
were cordial, and the weeks I had dreaded
so turned to my relief that, when we drove
back to London, I was in higher feather than
I had been for months.</p>

<p class="pindent">Adèle and Mansel took up the thread of
life as though they had never let it fall. If
ever they made believe, I never saw it: and,
when I was alone with either, neither by word
nor look was any reference made to what had
passed between them at the Castle of Gath.
Indeed their passionate adventure might
never have been. The old, easy relation was
back in its seat: they were content—happy,
for all the world to see: they avoided no
ground, because to them it was tender:
where others’ fancy took them, thither they
went, riding so straight and unconcernedly
that I, behind them, caught something of
their courage and found the formidable
fences of no account.</p>

<p class="pindent">I think this will show how very fine was
their temper, how brave and notable their
style. Handsome in all they did, in this
supreme ordeal they gave full measure, and
I like to think that with that same full
measure it shall one day be measured to
them again.</p>

<hr class="tbk" />

<p class="pindent">Not for some days did I remember that we
had never replaced the stone slab which had
sealed the entrance to the Closet from the
archway below.</p>

<p class="pindent">This will be found one day, where it lies
beneath the King’s bed: and one day the
coverlet will be drawn, and men will find the
blood-stain upon the quilt.</p>

<p class="pindent">What curious interest will not these things
arouse? The name of Maximilian will be
in every mouth. Old annals will be re-read,
old narratives revised and legends brought
to bed of fine new tales of wrath and mischief
and murder saved or done. And yet I
cannot think that, for all their bravery, they
will compare with the truth.</p>

<p class="pindent">This I am never weary of recalling, and
many a winter’s night I have sat at Maintenance,
looking into the fire of logs and giving
my memory rein.</p>

<p class="pindent">Our desperate drive to Poganec, and the
red of Mansel’s tail-light flicking into and out
of sight: the roar of the waterfall, and the
high-pitched laugh of the rogue that played
with Mansel and lost his game: my perilous
journey upon the roof of the car, and the
first, stupendous survey of the Castle of
Gath: our stealthy entry into the King’s
Closet, the ominous creak of the floor-board
and then the frantic pounding upon the door:
‘Rose’ Noble at the head of the table, and
Mansel’s lightning move, and the crash of
the shots: our vigil by the open window,
and the enemy’s hideous laughter floating
into the night: Casemate’s halting footfalls,
and Mansel asprawl upon the terrace, with
the rope by his side: and, then, the death
of ‘Rose’ Noble, and Mansel on his knees
in the passage, with Adèle, aghast and
piteous, holding him up. . . .</p>

<p class="pindent">The remembrance of these things is precious
to me, for I had my part in them, and the
tapestry they make belongs to that quiet
gallery of which Mansel and Adèle and I have
the only keys.</p>
